I PLEDGE
ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND TO
THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT
STANDS ONE NATION UNDER GOD
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL BUT OUR CLERK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
SMARTISH.
HERE COMES MORE HARRISON HERE
COUNCILPERSONS HERE WHERE
WATSON HERE.
DENHA HERE.
COUNCILMAN GARCIA HERE.
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE.
WE'RE EITHER HERE OR ELSEWHERE
HERE BECAUSE OUR BREAKS HERE
BECAUSE WE'RE KORNEL HERE WE
HAVE A QUORUM NOW THE MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN.
I WAS THINKING ABOUT COUNCILMAN
MCCONNELL DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA WHATEVER POST THE AGENDA
IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR NO
MAYOR IN THE ABSENCE
OF INTRODUCTIONS WE MOVE
DIRECTLY INTO THE COMMENT.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMON
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK A
PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME ONE
NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK SO
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL NOTIFY
WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE REMAINING
EITHER BY VOICE OR BY THE CLOCK
IN FRONT OF YOU WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
BRETT HOUTMAN.
RIGHT TOMOKI YOU CAN GO AHEAD
AND I'M YOUR PHONE ON ZOM
CAPACITATOR 6TH.
I'M YOUR PHONE
MR. TOMOKI IF
YOU'RE ON ZOOME YOU CAN PRESS
OUR SIX TO MINUTE YOUR PHONE
MAY OR I DO HAVE A CALLER ON
THE LINE BUT HE'S NOT ANSWERING
.
WE'LL MOVE FORWARD AND IF WE
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO PICK HIM
UP AGAIN WE'LL PICK HIM UP
AGAIN.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ERIC IVANEK
,ERIC IVANNA, JOHN ZUM, GO
AHEAD.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK TONIGHT.
I'D LIKE TO COMMEND THE CITY
STAR CITY COUNCIL AND THOSE WHO
SERVE IN THE PLANNING AND
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSIONERS
FOR THEIR EFFORTS TO HELP OUR
CITIES TO BETTER PROTECT
PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLISTS,
MOTORISTS, REDUCE OUR CITY'S
CARBON EMISSIONS, HELP WITH THE
DAUNTING HOUSING CRISIS AND
IMPROVE EQUITY FOR THOSE WHO
LIVE AND COME TO OUR CITY
TONIGHT THE SHOWS A LOT
OF THOUGHT AND EFFORT ACROSS
ALL FOUR OF THESE GROUPS SEE
FOR ADJUSTABILITY SETBACKS IN
SOME QUARTERS HELPING TO ENSURE
THERE IS ADEQUATE SPACE WITHIN
THE CURVE AND BUILDING FACADES
FOR AMENITIES FOR PEDESTRIANS
AND FOR THOSE WHO USE PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION SUCH AS
SIDEWALKS, BUS STOPS AND BUS
SHELTERS.
SPECIFICALLY IT ASSURES THERE
IS SUFFICIENT ROOM FOR ADA
COMPLIANT BUS STOPS AND
MEASURING SETBACKS FROM THE
CURB RATHER THAN THE PROPERTY
LINE AND SOLVES A LOT OF ISSUES
.
DC FOUR WILL HELP THE CITY
ACHIEVE ITS VISION ZERO PLAN TO
ELIMINATE ALL ROAD DEATHS AND
SERIOUS INJURIES.
MANY OF OUR CITIZENS ARE USING
LOCAL SOCIAL MEDIA TO EXPRESS
CONCERN ABOUT DANGEROUS PRIVATE
BEHAVIOR AND CALLING FOR HELP
FROM THE CITY CALLING FOR HELP
ON THE CITY, ENGINEERING OUR
ROAD WAYS TO BRING ABOUT SAFER
DRIVING IS ALWAYS A GOOD IDEA
AND IT'S PREFERABLE TO
ENFORCEMENT TOOLS SUCH AS
CITATIONS WIDE MULTI LANE ROADS
ARE KNOWN TO ENCOURAGE DRIVERS
TO SPEED UP WHICH MAKES THEM
MORE DANGEROUS SPEEDING ERRORS
OF DRIVERS FEEL THE VIEW HELPS
YOU TUNE OUT THE NEEDS OF OTHER
TYPES ROAD USERS AND INCREASES
THE CHANCE THAT ANYONE
STRUGGLING TO BE KILLED WE NEED
TO REMOVE OBSTACLES TO AND
ACCELERATE THE USE
OF ENGINEERING TO MAKE OUR
ROADS SAFER FOR EVERYONE.
C THREE IS THE MOST CHALLENGING
TO DISCUSS IN SUCH A SHORT
AMOUNT OF TIME.
THERE'S A COUNTERINTUITIVE
ASPECT TO IT WHICH I
UNDERSTANDABLY CONCERNED AND
SADLY OPENS IT UP TO DEMAGOGERY
THE MAJORITY OF US CLEARLY WANT
MORE AFFORDABLE HOUSING WITHIN
THE CITY.
THE HIGH DEMAND FOR HOUSING
COMBINED WITH THE RELATIVELY
DENHA SUPPLY OF HOUSING FOR
OVER DECADES HAS REALLY HURT
US.
WE NEED TO ADDRESS SUPPLY AND
DENSE HOUSING.
OUR DOWNTOWN AREA IS AMONG THE
MOST SUSTAINABLE HOUSING THERE
IS THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
PROGRAM IN PLACE SINCE TWENTY
NINETEEN AND THEY HAVE NOT
INCREASED AFFORDABLE HOUSING BY
A SINGLE UNIT
AVALON'S
DEVELOPMENT AND ONE TWENTY ONE
CAPRON WAS ALWAYS GOING TO BE
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT SUBSIDIZED
HOUSING.
SO IN THAT TIME THE PREMIUMS
PLACED AN ARTIFICIAL LIMIT ON
THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES WE
CANNOT AFFORD ANY ADDITIONAL
DELAY IN MOVING THESE
COUNTERPRODUCTIVE LIMITS IS AS
SOMEONE SAID TODAY ON LOCAL
SOCIAL MEDIA ADDING TO THE
HOUSE OF SUPPLY SUPPORTED BY
PRESIDENT BY THIS WHITE HOUSE
AND CITY MORE HOUSING AS SOON
AS POSSIBLE IS A PROGRESSIVE
RESPONSE TO AN ACUTE CRISIS
BANK.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CHRIS
STANSBURY
CHRIS STANSBURY PAST
OUR SIX TIME FARM GO OR FIRST
OF ALL I'D LIKE TO THANK THE
CITY COUNCIL VERY MUCH FOR
THEIR TIME THIS EVENING.
I'M HERE IN SUPPORT FOR THE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
CITY WIDE DRAINAGE LOOKING AT
GRAVEL ROADS IN THE CITY, IT'S
BEEN INTERESTING TO SAY THE
THERE'S BEEN DRAINAGE ISSUES
FOR DECADES FOR ON CLIMATE
CHANGE OTHER THAN IF ANY
EXPANSION ALSO CONTRIBUTED TO
THE WORSENING CONDITION.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, WHERE I LIVE IN
VALLEY DRY EMPTY LOTS THAT
WE'RE ONE WATERSHED IN THOSE
LIKE IN CASES THAT INVOLVE
BUILT UP WITH NO PERMANENT
REMEDIATION TO WHERE THE WATER
IS.
SO IT RESULTED IN MORE WATER IN
OUR YARD BEING BUILT UP IN THE
STREET AND IN SOME CASES IN OUR
HOME.
JUST A COUPLE OF PICTURES AFTER
SOME BAD STORMS SNOWMELT OVER A
FOOT OF WATER SAND IN THE YARD
THAT WE COME TO T.P HAS OTHER
CHILDREN STANDING WATER ON THE
SIDE THE STREETS FOR PEOPLE TO
WALK IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
STREET TO AVOID FLOWING WATER.
IN EFFECT, THE MOTORIST
DEMONSTRATES BENEFACTOR THE
PEDESTRIAN PROBLEM STORMWATER
ALSO CARRIES WITH IT OIL AND
OTHER CHEMICALS FROM THE ROAD
INTO OUR YARDS.
I PERSONALLY HAD TO GO THROUGH
AROUND SO TO GET OIL OUT OF MY
DOG MAKESHIFT WOODEN BRIDGES
REQUESTED FRONT YARD DELIVERY.
SO IT'S CRAZY THAT YOU COULD
SEE ALL OF THESE THINGS NOT IN
SOME RURAL AREA WITH NO
INFRASTRUCTURE BUT ON A WALK TO
HAVE ELEMENTARY AND THESE
CONDITIONS ARE NEAR CONSTANT
SOURCE OF FRUSTRATION FOR BUT
AS THE SAYING GOES, IT'S NOT
THE CHALLENGES THAT DEFINE IT
BUT HOW WE RESPOND TO THE THOSE
CHALLENGES THE COUNCIL AND FOR
THE FIRST TIME IN A LONG TIME
FOLKS IN MY COMMUNITY HAVE SOME
HOPE THAT WE'LL BE WORKING
TOGETHER AS A COMMUNITY TO
BEGIN TO PLAN FOR THE ISSUE.
WE ARE INCREDIBLY GRATEFUL FOR
COUNCILPERSON FOR THE SUPPORT
SHE'S GIVEN OVER THE PAST
COUPLE OF YEARS AND WE ARE
INCREDIBLY GRATEFUL TO BE HERE
TODAY VOICING SUPPORT FOR THE
STUDY WHICH SHOWS THAT THIS
COUNCIL AND MANY OTHERS IN THE
CITY HAVE A VESTED INTEREST
STUDYING AND REMEDIATING THE
ISSUE NOT ONLY FOR NOW BUT FOR
THE CONTINUED AND SUSTAINABLE
GROWTH OF THE CITY AND OF OUR
BEING CONSTANTLY RANKED IN THE
TOP TEN CITIES IN AMERICA.
I HAVE TO SAY WE'VE GOT SO
THANK YOU AGAIN FOR ALLOWING ME
TO PROVIDE THREE MINUTES
OF CONTACT.
I HIGHLY ENCOURAGE YOU BACK TO
THE PORT OF SO THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
WE DID WE'VE RESOLVED OUR
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRET TOMOKI
TOMOKI PRESS STAR SIX ON YOUR
PHONE.
GO AHEAD AND MAKE A COMMENT
FROM OUR CURRENT DEPARTMENT
OF THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION ONLY ON MY OWN
BEHALF APPOINTED BY PRESIDENT
REPORT FOR DUTY FOR RESOLUTION
TO ACCELERATE THE IMPROVEMENT
IN WHAT LANE WROTE.
I BELIEVE THAT THE
POSSIBILITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT
SAFETY FOR ALL AUDIENCES AND
FOR A CRITICALLY IMPORTANT
COMPONENT OF REACHING THE GOAL
AND LAID OUT ON THE MISSION
THROUGH PLAN THIS RESOLUTION
WHICH DIRECTS THE ADMINISTRATOR
TO BUDGET FOR THE ANTICIPATED
ANTICIPATED EVALUATING AND OUR
FIRST MULTI LANE ROAD FOUR LANE
REDUCTION AND OR CONCILIATING
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WOULD IT'S
ENCOURAGING TO SEE THE
COMMITMENT EXPRESSED BY HUTTING
BE THE VALUATIONS AND FUTURE
BUDGETS BECAUSE THESE SORTS
OF BROKEN RECONFIGURATIONS ARE
RECOGNIZED AS PART OF THE SPEED
MANAGEMENT PLAN.
TULBA BUDGETING FOR THEM IS
ESSENTIAL.
IT EXPRESSES THE SERIOUSNESS
WITH WHICH I BELIEVE THE CITY
WILL CONSIDER RECONFIGURATION
BY INVOLVING CONSULTANTS WERE
NECESSARY SEEKING OUT PRACTICES
,CREATIVE DESIGN OPTIONS AND
ENGAGEMENT EMPLOYEES.
I EXPECT THAT YOUR STAFF WITH
EXPERTIZE AND IN THE BEST
INTEREST OF PAUL ROBESON IN THE
QUEST TO ACHIEVE VISION THERO
THE WORK THAT CONTAINS SO MUCH
IMPORTANT BACKGROUND
INFORMATION I WANT TO DRAW
ATTENTION TO ONE IN PARTICULAR
WHERE LANE REDUCTIONS FLAT ROAD
BUT SIGNIFICANTLY FEWER CRASHES
AND THEREFORE OUT MAIN STREET
LANE RECONFIGURATIONS AN
INCREASE IN VEHICLES TRAVELING
AT OR BELOW THE SPEED LIMIT AND
FORTY TWO SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT
IS A CRITICAL AND SIGNIFICANT
AFTERWARDS I LOOK FORWARD TO
MORE TRAFFIC AS A RESULT
OF THIS RESOLUTION.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT
THIS RESOLUTION IS NOT A
MANDATE FOR EVERY CONFIGURATION
HAPPENS HERE IS A MANDATE THAT
WOULD FUND THE EVALUATION
OF ALL POSSIBLE RECONFIGURATION
THAT WE TAKE SERIOUSLY THE
EFFORT REQUIRED TO DO IT IN
YOUR PROFESSIONAL DATA DRIVEN
INFORMED EVALUATION BY TWENTY
THIRTY I HOPE THE EVALUATION
WILL BE MORE AND MORE ALLEGRO
CONFIGURATIONS THAT WORK FOR
THAT USER A PEDESTRIAN TRYING
TO CROSS THE ROAD FOR KIDS LIKE
THE SCHOOL FOR DRIVERS TRYING
TO TURN BACK ENDED BUT FOR THE
PEOPLE LIVING ON THIS ROAD AND
FOR ALL THOSE PEOPLE TO AVOID
THE KNOWN DOCUMENTED BY MORE
LANE ROAD BECAUSE LANE ROADS
WERE BUILT TO A CERTAIN PLACE
DECADES AGO DOES NOT MEAN THAT
DECISION CANNOT OR SHOULD NOT
BE REVISITED.
PREFERENCES CHANGE COMMUNITIES
CHANGE STANDARDS THE NORM
CHANGE OVER FIVE SECONDS.
SO TOO SHOULD OUR
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE.
I ENCOURAGE YOU ALL TO TAKE A
STEP TOWARDS ZERO BY VOTING FOR
THANK YOU.
THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEXANDRIA
LINDSTRM AND I'M HERE TODAY TO
SUPPORT RESOLUTION DC FOUR TO
ACCELERATE SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS
ON MULTI-LINE ROADS.
I AM A CYCLIST WHO RIDES
EXTENSIVELY FOR RECREATION AND
I RUN ALL OF MY ERRANDS BY BIKE
OR BY FOOT WHEN I CAN AND I USE
THE PROTECTED BIKE LANES ON
FIRST AND CATHERINE FREQUENTLY
AND I AM LOOKING FORWARD THE
IMPROVEMENTS ON MILLER AND WHEN
I DON'T CHOOSE A BIKE IS WHEN I
WOULD HAVE TO USE A MULTI LANE
ROAD FOR EXAMPLE MY PARENTS
LIVE OFF OF PLYMOUTH ROAD WHICH
IS WHERE I GREW UP AND WHEN I
VISIT THEM UNLESS I HAVE TIME
TO RIDE AN INDIRECT ROUTE I
WILL DRIVE.
I'VE RIDDEN IN THE BIKE ON
PLYMOUTH AND I HAVE RIDDEN IN
THE ROAD.
I WRITTEN ON THE SIDEWALK AND
NONE OF THE OPTIONS FEEL SAFE
BECAUSE THE CARS ARE MOVING TOO
FAST.
THEY DO NOT HAVE TIME TO
PROCESS THAT I AM THERE AND
THEY WILL OFTEN CLOSE EVEN WHEN
I'M IN THE BIKE LANE AND I
WOULD HAVE APPRECIATED GROWING
UP HAVING A DIRECT ROUTE TO
DOWNTOWN THAT FELT SAFE.
THAT WAS SOMETHING I COULD
ACCESS BEFORE I COULD DRIVE AND
A WAY THAT I COULD GET TO
DOWNTOWN EASILY AND THE CITY'S
VISION ZERO COMMITMENT IS AN
ADMIRABLE ONE AND IT NEEDS TO
INCLUDE HAVING THE MOST DIRECT
ROUTES INTO TOWN.
SEE I ONLY OFTEN BIKE FROM
DOWNTOWN TO OTHER SIDES
OF DOWNTOWN BUT WE NEED TO
EXPAND THE ACCESS TO BICYCLING
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR THE ENTIRETY
OF THE CITY AND I'LL SHARE THAT
ON ROADS WHERE THERE'S OBVIOUS
BIKE INFRASTRUCTURE WHERE IT'S
CLEAR THAT THERE ARE MANY
PEDESTRIANS I FEEL THE LEAST
AGGRESSION FROM DRIVERS.
THEY CAN SEE ME AHEAD OF TIME.
THEY ARE MOVING SLOWLY.
THEY DON'T I FEEL LIKE I AM
OFTEN SEEN AS AN INCONVENIENCE
OR A FRUSTRATION.
I'VE HAD PEOPLE YELL AT ME MANY
TIMES ON MY BIKE BUT ON ROADS
WHERE THE INFRASTRUCTURE IS
ACTUALLY BUILT UP AND PEOPLE
ARE DRIVING THE SPEED LIMIT I
DON'T EXPERIENCE THAT AND I
FEEL SIGNIFICANTLY SAFER.
SO I ENCOURAGE THE CITY TO PASS
THIS RESOLUTION AND TO CONTINUE
TO BUILD INFRASTRUCTURE FOR
CYCLISTS AND PEDESTRIANS ACROSS
THE CITY.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CATHERINE
COULD JOIN
COLOR AT THE PHONE
I'M MORNING AND THREE NINE NINE
CRESTAR SIX TO COMMUTE YOUR
PHONE.
OH, GO AHEAD.
HI.
I'M GOING TO REPORT THE LOCAL
MEDIA HOPE I AGREE WITH THE
PREVIOUS CALLER THAT TOO FAT
AND OVERBILL I CAN MOVE ALONG
KLEMET FROM THE WHITE PILOT
PROGRAM IN WARD FIVE AND IF I'M
HAVING FOUND ON THE AND THE
OPTIONS ARE VERY BIKEWAY WHICH
ARE OFTEN BUMPY FOR UNDERWATER
ESPECIALLY BY THE CREEK OR AN
OVERGROWN ROAD UNDER IF I'M
HEADING TO THE CURVE THAT CARS
ARE FREQUENTLY COMPETING ALONG
WITH THE DESIGN OF THE ROAD IF
I'M HEADING BACK INTO MY HOME I
AM STRUCK A LOT
CONFLICT GOING
WHAT I IF I WERE BOTH FIGHTING
FOR THAT BABY COUPLE OF FEET
ALONG THE CURVE PARTICULARLY
APART I AM POTENTIALLY WAITING
TO MAKE UP THE TIME AND I I'M
NOT SURE IF I DO.
I DON'T WANT TO DECIDE WHAT WE
ARE.
CAN WE GET OFF THE SIDEWALK FOR
A WHILE AND DEPART AND GO
AROUND THE BACK TO BACK OUT
WHEN I'M PREGNANT?
SO WE'RE GETTING THE BABY ROAD
.
WE DON'T HAVE CONFLICT BETWEEN
OUR TWO OPTIONS BUT THEY WOULD
BE GREAT IF ANYTHING THE PEOPLE
WHO HAVE THE LEAST ACCESS TO
YOUR CAR ARE PROBABLY GOING TO
BE THE PEOPLE THAT THEY'RE ALSO
GOING TO BE THE PEOPLE THAT
HAVE THE LEAST ABILITY TO CALL
THEM TO THE DETAINEES.
SO I WANT TO AND SEE LOTS
OF FOLKS WHO ARE BIKING OR
TRYING TO MAKE THEIR WAY ACROSS
WITH ALL THE DRIVE ON THE
BICYCLE OUT THERE.
ALL OF YOU THINK THAT THE
VIKINGS ARE BEING USED RIGHT
NOW ESPECIALLY THOSE OF MY
FRIENDS AND A COUPLE
OF NEIGHBORHOODS BANABA, YOU
COULD IMPROVE THE KRAKATAU
THIRTY I'M SURE WILL BE MORE
CONNECTIVITY MORE EQUITABLY.
IT WILL IMPACT THINGS LIKE HOW
THINGS ARE MAYBE A LITTLE
CLOSER TO CHANGE.
WE CAN MAKE THEM ACTUALLY
IMPACT ON THOSE WINE COOLERS.
ALL RIGHT.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MICHELLE
HUGHES
.
MICHELLE, YOU WANT TO GO AHEAD.
HI.
I AM ALSO CALLING IN IN FAVOR
OF THE ROAD RECONFIGURATIONS.
I'M SOMEONE WHO BIKES FOR
MICRORNA TRANSPORTATION AND
I'LL BIKE CONDITIONS.
I'M A DAREDEVIL.
I'LL GO DOWN THE ROAD IN THE IN
THE TRAFFIC AND GET PONTAC THAT
GETS WORN AT BY THE DRIVERS AND
IT KIND OF TAKES NERVES
OF STEEL TO DO THAT KIND THING
AND YOU SHOULDN'T NEED NERVES
OF STEEL TO GET AROUND DOWNTOWN
OR TO GET AROUND YOUR YOU'RE
TELLING THEM THAT YOU LIVE IN
IT EVERYONE SHOULD BE ABLE TO
TO GET AROUND EVEN IF YOU CAN'T
EVEN IF YOU CAN'T AFFORD A CAR,
EVEN IF YOU CAN'T DRIVE A CAR.
THERE'S A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
HAVE DISABILITIES THAT PREVENT
THEM FROM DRIVING A CAR AND OUR
ROADS SHOULD BE DESIGNED FOR
UNIVERSAL ACCESS MEANING THAT
THEY ARE HELPFUL FOR EVERYONE
AS CONFIGURATION AND THAT MEANS
THAT IT SHOULDN'T BE STRESSFUL
TO RIDE A BIKE AROUND BECAUSE
SOME PEOPLE NEED TO BIKE OR
SOME PEOPLE PREFER TO THINK AND
WE SHOULD BE TRYING TO GET
PEOPLE TO BIKE AS PART OF OUR
EIGHT TO ZERO GOALS IS TO ONE
OF OUR GOALS IS TO REDUCE
VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED BY 15
PERCENT AND IF WE CONTINUE TO
HAVE ROADS THAT ARE BUILT FOR
THE EXCLUSIVE USE OF CARS THEN
THERE'S NOT THAT THE ONLY THING
WE CAN DO TO GET PEOPLE TO STOP
DRIVING SO MUCH IS TO CAJOLE
THE SAME AND THAT'S NOT GOING
TO WORK.
YOU GOT TO MAKE IT AS EASY AS
CONVENIENT OR MORE CONVENIENT
TO RIDE A BIKE OR YOU HAVE TO
MAKE IT AS ARE MORE CONVENIENT
TO TAKE A BUS OR TO WALK.
AND RIGHT NOW THAT'S NOT THE
CASE AND THERE'S A LOT
OF PEOPLE WHO THINK THAT BIKING
ISN'T FOR EVERYONE.
I LIKE BIKING.
THAT'S JUST FOR BIKING PEOPLE.
BUT AS NORMAL PEOPLE WE NEED TO
DRIVE OUR CARS AND THE REASON
THEY THINK THAT IS BECAUSE
BIKING IS UNTHINKABLE DANGEROUS
RIGHT NOW MOST PEOPLE DON'T
WANT TO HAVE TO GO THROUGH
THESE CONDITIONS AND SO IT
SEEMS LIKE A COMPLETELY
UNTENABLE PROPOSITION TO RIDE A
BIKE WHEREAS IF WE HAD A CITY
THAT WAS DESIGNED AROUND BIKING
30 SECONDS IT WOULD BE
UNTHINKABLE TO DO OTHERWISE.
SO YES, EVERY TIME WE FIX A
ROAD THAT SHOULD BE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO TO ACTUALLY FIX
HOW THE ROAD IS USED IN
ADDITION TO FIXING THE PAVEMENT
ON THE SO EASY FOR YES TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KEN GARBER
.
THANKS MAYOR TAYLOR.
KEN GARBER SECOND WARD.
YOU HAD THE LAST THREE SPEAKERS
SPOKE ABOUT BIKING THROUGH WHAT
I DID THAT JUST NOW AND I AGREE
IT'S IT'S A SCARY ENDEAVOR.
BUT I WANT TO TALK TONIGHT
ABOUT T TO THE BRIARWOOD CIRCLE
PROJECT.
THIS IS AN EXCELLENT PLAN TO
DEMOLISH THE SEARS BUILDING,
REPLACE WITH GROCERY AND
SPORTING GOODS STORES AND A
THREE HUNDRED FIFTY FOUR UNIT
APARTMENT BUILDING EVERYTHING
ALL ELECTRIC IN ALIGNMENT WITH
THE TWO ZERO PLAN EXCEPT FOR
BACKUP GAS GENERATOR OR SO WE
THOUGHT.
THE OCTOBER THREE PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING DEVELOPER
OF SIMON PROPERTY GROUP
REVEALED THAT TO HIS SHOCK DE
COULD NOT GUARANTEE ENOUGH
CAPACITY TO SERVE A HUNDRED
PERCENT ELECTRIC BUILDING SO
SIMON MIGHT HAVE TO GO WITH GAS
HEATING AFTER ALL.
YES OF COURSE SIMON DOES ALL
ELECTRIC PROJECTS ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY NOW THEY COME HERE AND
SUDDENLY THEY CAN'T.
MAYBE THIS IS NOW RESOLVED BUT
THIS IS NOT A ONE OFF.
IT'S COME UP ALL OVER THE CITY
AND IT'S UNACCEPTABLE UNDER
COMMON LAW AND ALSO MODERN
FEDERAL AND STATE REGULATIONS
MONOPOLY UTILITIES LIKE WE ARE
OBLIGATED TO PROVIDE SERVICE TO
ALL CUSTOMERS WITHIN THEIR
SERVICE TERRITORIES EVEN IF
THEY HAVE TO DO THIS AT A LOSS
THEY CAN'T JUST SAY SORRY, NOT
ENOUGH CAPACITY.
DUTY TO SERVE IS A ROCK SOLID
LEGAL PRINCIPLE.
SO I ASK YOU TO DO THIS FIRST
FIND OUT WHAT NOT ENOUGH
CAPACITY MEANS IN THIS CASE THE
DISTRIBUTION LINES SUFFICIENT
DIAMETER TO DELIVER THE
ELECTRICITY, THE SUBSTATION
TRANSFORMER DEFICIENT IS NOT
CONTRACTING FOR ENOUGH
ELECTRICITY FROM MIKE MIZO
WHICH RUN THE WHOLESALE GRID.
WE NEED TO KNOW DTV ENGINEER
MIKE WITKOWSKY TOLD PLANNING
PERMISSION EXCUSE ME ENERGY
COMMISSION IN AUGUST THAT THE
BUYER WOULD SUBSTATION IS ONE
OF THE MOST STATE OF THE ART
SUBSTATIONS THEY HAVE.
IT DEPLOYS MODERN THIRTEEN
POINT TWO KILOWATT DISTRIBUTION
LINES SO SADLY LACKING
ELSEWHERE IN THE CITY.
HOW CAN BE THAT TI CAN'T MEET
DEMAND RIGHT THERE AT BRIARWOOD
AND IF UPGRADING IS NEEDED YOU
SHOULD NOT CHARGE THIS GO
DEVELOPER AND ARM AND A LEG
UNDER CIA WHICH IS CONTRIBUTION
TO NATIVE CONSTRUCTION.
THE NPC AUTHORIZED CIC AS A WAY
TO MAKE SURE RATEPAYERS DON'T
SUBSIDIZE URBAN SPRAWL.
THEY WEREN'T THINKING ABOUT
INFILL PROJECTS BECAUSE THE
ASSUMPTION WAS THAT SUCH
CAPACITY ALREADY EXISTED.
THIS DIDN'T TAKE SYSTEM NEGLECT
INTO ACCOUNT BUT BACK TO
CAPACITY.
WE'RE APPROVING PROJECT AFTER
PROJECT WHERE DEVELOPERS
REFUSED TO GO ALL ELECTRIC
KNOWINGLY HELPING TO WRECK OUR
CITY CITIES CLIMATE GOALS AND
THIS ONE WANTS TO DO THE RIGHT
THING AND IT CAN'T BECAUSE
OF NO CAPACITY EVEN IF THAT'S
NOW RESOLVED.
WE NEED TO ADDRESS THIS GENERAL
ISSUE BY HOLDING DTG
ACCOUNTABLE FOR ITS LEGAL DUTY
TO SERVE OTHERWISE WE'LL SEE
MORE GOOD DEVELOPERS LIKE THIS
ONE FORCED TO USE GAS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ROSS SMITH
,ROSS SMITH, ANZELMO ASTAR SIX
GO AHEAD RATHMANN.
I'M ON THE LEFT SIDE.
I AM TALKING ABOUT SUPPORT
OF FOR OTHERS IS TALKED ABOUT
BIKING AND PEDESTRIAN.
I WILL GET TO THAT AS I CAN BUT
I HAPPEN TO HAVE TO DRIVE A CAR
SOMETIMES AND LIVING NEAR A
STADIUM IT'S TERRIFYING.
EVEN ELECTRONIC PLAYERS FOR
FOUR LANES TO BE CLEAR THE TO
ONCOMING LANES THAT LANE AND
ONE OF THE LANES GOING IN THE
DIRECTION I WANT TO IF THINGS
ARE AT ALL BUSY THAT ISN'T AT
LEAST QUICKLY.
I WAS WAITING A LONG TIME AND
HONESTLY AND MAKE A RIGHT AND
TWENTY FOUR MILE DRAG
COMPETITION TO SOME GOALS
MAKING BUT MAKING THE EFFORT TO
GET RID OF MULTI-LINE EARTH IN
THE CITY OF EVERYONE AND THOSE
ROADS ARE BIG ENOUGH TO ALLOW
FOR THE OTHER PROJECTS THAT I
CALLED OUT IN DC FOR AS A AS A
PEDESTRIAN I OFTEN WALK FOR
THINGS OUTSIDE THE STADIUM IF I
WANT TO GET TO SOMEWHERE LIKE
ON THE MARKET TO
MULTILATERALISTS JUST
TERRIFYING
AND THIS IS IT.
SO EVEN IF ONE PERSON S THE
CASE OF ONE DRIVER STOPPED FOR
ME NO TIME TO SEE SOME KIND
OF BLINKER AGAINST THE OTHER
LANE AND BLOW PAST THEM IS A
REALLY, REALLY HIGH MAKING CITY
BETTER SUITED TO OTHER MODES
OF TRANSPORTATION.
HELP EVERYONE BUT THE MORE
PEOPLE ON BIKES MEANS PEOPLE
THAT NEED TO TAKE THE CAR
SOMEWHERE ELSE.
TRAFFIC THERE'S LESS TRAFFIC
FOR BUSSES TO GET STUCK IN.
WE HAVE MORE ROOM FOR MAKING
OUR PUBLIC TRANSIT BETTER.
I OCCASIONALLY HAVE TO GO UP
THE ROAD AND FORTUNATELY I'M
EQUIPPED TO RIDE ON DIRT ROADS
AND DON'T MIND A LITTLE MONEY
SO I CAN TAKE THE BACK WAY BUT
IN BOTH DIRECTIONS AND THAT'S
ALSO A GROWING ENDEAVOR.
THE CARS TEND TO GO WAY TOO
FAST.
THESE ROADS THAT LOOK LIKE I
LIKE WHICH IS REALLY NOT
SURPRISING THAT PEOPLE TEND TO
NOT BE PAYING ATTENTION ON 30
SECONDS INCLUDE WELL I LIKE
EVERYTHING ELSE IN THIS TOO THE
BACKGROUND INFORMATION.
BUT THE OTHER POINT AND THANK
YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JEFF HAYNER
.
HELLO.
IT WAS NICE TO YOU THAT LAST
SPEAKER HAVE A LITTLE EMPATHY
FOR PEOPLE WHOSE TRADES
PROFESSIONS AND SO ON DON'T
ALLOW THEM TO RIDE BICYCLES OR
TAKE THE BUS PLACES.
WE'VE GOT TO RECOGNIZE THAT
THAT'S PART OF OUR COMMUNITY
TOO.
AND I THINK IT WAS THAT HE SAID
THAT, YOU KNOW, IT WOULD BE
GREAT IF IT WAS THE FACT THAT
IF MORE PEOPLE TO TOOK BIKES
AND BUSSES AND SO ON THERE
WOULD BE MORE ROOM FOR THE
TRADESPEOPLE AND THE SERVICE
PEOPLE AND THE DELIVERY PEOPLE
AND EVERYBODY ELSE THAT ARE
PART OF OUR COMMUNITY.
I'M HERE TO TALK ABOUT SEATTLE
WHICH IS THE PUBLIC RESTROOM
RESOLUTION THAT'S ON HERE AND I
WAS SORT OF COMPELLED TO COME
DOWN HERE BECAUSE I WAS A
CO-SPONSOR OF THE ORIGINAL
RESOLUTION THAT STARTED THAT
BALL ROLLING AND I DIDN'T
REALLY FEEL WHEN I READ THE
RESOLUTION THAT'S THE FOR US
TONIGHT FOR YOU ALL TONIGHT
THAT IT WAS KIND OF FOCUSED ON
THE INTENTION OF WHAT WE WE
THOUGHT ABOUT AND VOTED FOR
BACK THEN.
THE NOTION BEHIND PUBLIC
RESTROOMS IN OUR CITY WAS TO
ASSESS IF THERE WAS A NEED FOR
HIM AND WHO THE NEED WAS FOR
AND ALSO TO TAKE A LOOK AT
POSSIBLE SYNERGIES WHEN WE DO
CONSTRUCTION HERE IN OUR CITY.
AND SO WE KNEW THAT GENERAL HAD
BEEN ASSIGNED THESE ELEVEN
PROPERTIES TO EVALUATE FOR
SOCIAL HOUSING USES CITY
PROPERTIES AND THAT WE ALSO
KNOW THAT WE HAVE MANY CITY
PROPERTIES THAT ARE BEING
MAINTAINED OR UPGRADED OR WHAT
HAVE YOU SUCH AS PARKING
STRUCTURES THAT ALSO COULD BE
REFITTED FOR PUBLIC RESTROOMS
AND WOULD PROVIDE THAT THAT
NEED.
AND IN ADDITION THAT WAS THE
LIBRARY LOT AND OF COURSE THE
LIBRARY LOT.
THE VOTERS SAID THAT IT'S
SUPPOSED TO BE A PUBLIC SPACE
OF COMMONS AND THAT IS SUPPOSED
TO BE DEVELOPED AS SUCH AND
THAT SEEMED LIKE ANOTHER
PERFECT OPPORTUNITY TO
INTEGRATE PUBLIC RESTROOMS IN
OUR COMMUNITY.
AND SO I DIDN'T REALLY FEEL
LIKE THE INTENTION WAS TO PUT
TEMPORARY FACILITIES AS TESTS
OUT THERE IN THE COMMUNITY AND
IT PROBABLY WON'T SHOCK THE
MAYOR WHO SERVED A FULL TERM OR
MYSELF WHO SERVED A FULL TERM
HERE ON COUNCIL MAY HAVE A
LITTLE EXPERIENCE WITH THIS
THAT YOU DON'T HAVE TO EVEN
HAVE DONE THAT TO HAVE PEOPLE
NEIGHBORS COMING TO YOU AND
ASKING YOU QUESTIONS AND WITH
CONCERNS.
AND SO I HAD A LOT OF PEOPLE
COME TO ME AND SAY WE'RE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE PROCESS
WENT INTO THIS.
WE DON'T REALLY BELIEVE THAT IT
WAS A FULL AND FAIR PROCESS AND
IT DIDN'T INVOLVE EVERYONE BE
THAT AS IT MAY HERE WE ARE AND
THERE'S A FEW THINGS THAT ARE
GOING ON HERE THAT AREN'T
REALLY WEREN'T REALLY
CONSIDERED FOR INSTANCE, WE
HAVE MANY PUBLIC RESTROOMS BUT
PEOPLE DON'T KNOW WHERE THEY
ARE AND SO I'D ENCOURAGE THE
D.A. TO GET OUT THERE AND PUT
SOME SIGNS UP.
NO ONE I THINK THAT'S A GOOD
START.
YOU KNOW, IT'S REALLY SOMETHING
TO COME HERE AND SPEAK TO THIS
COUNCIL WHICH I KIND
OF CONSIDER LIKE THE LEAST
DIVERSE COUNCIL WE'VE EVER HAD
BECAUSE I'M INTERESTED IN
INTELLECTUAL DIVERSITY AND SO I
WOULD ENCOURAGE YOU TO PULL
THIS OFF AND HAVE A
CONVERSATION SO EVERYBODY WHO
YOU DIDN'T TALK TO PRIOR TO
THIS REALLY UNDERSTANDS WHAT
WE'RE THINKING BECAUSE RIGHT
NOW WE HAVE A VERY LITTLE
INTELLECTUAL DIVERSITY IN THIS
BODY AND THAT KIND OF LEADS TO
VERY LOW CREDIBILITY FOR YOUR
DECISIONS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CATHY
GRISWOLD
.
GOOD EVENING.
WHEN FORMER COUNCIL MEMBER
HAYNER SAID INTELLECTUAL
DIVERSITY I DON'T THINK HE
MEANT SOME SMART PEOPLE AND
SOME DUMB PEOPLE.
I THINK HE DIVERSITY OF THOUGHT
SO ANYWAY AND I JUST LOVE THAT
BUREAU HERE.
IT CAPTURES THE ESSENCE
OF WISHFUL THINKING AND I FEEL
LIKE I'M IN HEAVEN OR
SOMETHING.
IT'S LIKE YOU THINK IT HAPPENS
OK, I'M GOING TO BE SERIOUS NOW
BECAUSE THESE ARE REALLY DARK
TIMES BUT WE'VE GOT SOME
POSITIVE ENERGY IN THIS
COMMUNITY RIGHT NOW.
THE FIRST ONE IS REGARDING THE
EPA AND MOST PEOPLE REALIZE
THAT THIS HAS BEEN A DECADE
LONG STRUGGLE AND I'LL JUST
READ FROM THE PRESS RELEASE
OF CONGRESSWOMAN DEBBIE
DINGELL, THE MICHIGAN
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL
ENVIRONMENT GREAT LAKES IN
ENERGY TODAY ANNOUNCED THE
GOVERNMENT IS ONE FOR DIOXIN.
POUM HAS BEEN DEEMED ELIGIBLE
BY THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY TO MOVE FORWARD AS A AND
THEN UNDERLINE CANDIDATE FOR
INCLUSION TO THE NATIONAL
PRIORITIES LIST NPL.
THIS IS JUST ONE FOR NEWS AND
IT MEANS THAT WE MOVE FROM A
DATA COLLECTION, A DATA
ANALYSIS STAGE TO JUST A
POLITICAL STAGE.
IT'S GOING TO BE IN THE FEDERAL
REGISTER IN A FEW MONTHS AND WE
STILL HAVE A FIGHT BECAUSE
OF COURSE GOVERNMENT IS NOT
GOING TO JUST ACCEPT THIS.
BUT ANYWAY, THIS IS REALLY
GREAT NEWS .
ANOTHER THING I WANT TO MENTION
IS MIDDLE INCOME HOUSING WHICH
I'VE BEEN WORKING ON AND THE
BLOG DEVELOPING ANN ARBOR WHICH
IF YOU'RE NOT FOLLOWING IT YOU
REALLY SHOULD SAYS ONE THING IS
CLEAR FROM THE INITIAL U OF M
CAMPUS TWENTY FIFTY PLAN OPEN
HOUSES AND THE RESULTING LAND
USE IDEAS PUBLICATION THE DOOR
TO WORKFORCE HOUSING IS
CURRENTLY CRACKED OPEN AND OPEN
ESPECIALLY WITH PRESIDENT SANTA
ONO BEING INITIALLY OPEN TO THE
IDEA.
SO NOT ONLY IS THE UNIVERSE IT
IS STILL TALKING ABOUT
WORKFORCE HOUSING BUT WE ALSO
HAVE A COMMUNITY LAND TRUST IN
THIS COMMUNITY AND OUR ESTATE
DEVELOPER WAS HERE MET WITH THE
MAYOR AND SOME COUNCIL MEMBERS
AS WELL AS WALK THE SITE WITH
SOME OF THE MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY LAND TRUST ME LAST
WEEK.
SO THESE ARE VERY COMPLICATED,
COMPLEX ISSUES BUT THERE IS
FORWARD MOVEMENT.
THE LAST THING IS THE THE
RESOLUTION TO BRING ABOUT
SAFETY FOR EVERYONE.
BUT WE'RE ONLY FOCUSING ON OUR
MULTI LANE ROADS.
SO I HAVE TO ASK WHAT ARE WE
DOING FOR THE CHILDREN IN THE
NEIGHBORHOODS THEY DO?
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ABU BAKAR
IBRAHIM
ABU BAKAR IBRAHIM
AEROSHELL.
HE WAS SUPPOSED TO BE IN PERSON
.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MOHAMMED
FIRST OF ALL, THANK YOU FOR
HAVING ME HERE, ESPECIALLY
TALKING TO ALL OF YOU.
I KNOW PRETTY MUCH EVERYONE
HERE BUT LIKE MANY OF YOU I AM
HEARTBROKEN ABOUT THE ONGOING
VIOLENCE, SUFFERING AND LOSS
OF LIFE AMONG THE ISRAELI AND
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
I VALUE ALL THE MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMUNITY AND SADLY I DO KNOW
THAT THE EVENTS OF THE PAST FEW
DAYS HAS IMPACTED MANY IN OUR
COMMUNITY WITH TIES TO THAT
REGION.
JUST TO GIVE YOU SOME
BACKGROUND, I THINK I KNOW YOU
PROBABLY ALREADY KNOW THAT I'M
PALESTINIAN MUSLIM AMERICAN WHO
CAME TO THIS COUNTRY AS A
REFUGEE.
I'M ALSO AN ELECTED YET I FEEL
ALONE AND HURT BUT MY HEART
RUNS DEEP AND THIS IS PERSONAL
AS A CHILD, GRANDPARENTS AND
PARENTS OF THE NACHBAR NINETEEN
FORTY EIGHT AND SOMEONE WHO
LIVED THROUGH THE TERROR
OF ISRAEL IN LEBANON WAR I ASK
YOU TO PUT YOURSELF IN MY SHOES
AND OUR SHOES.
THE REALITIES OF WHAT IS
HAPPENING RIGHT NOW IMPACTING
MY COMMUNITY RIGHT NOW HERE
INCLUDING MANY MUSLIMS AND
ARABS ESPECIALLY PALESTINIANS
IN ANN ARBOR AND PEOPLE FROM MY
COMMUNITY ARE SCARED.
THERE HAVE BEEN ONGOING SAFETY
CONCERNS, FEAR OF SPEAKING
GENERATIONAL TRAUMA AND MENTAL
HEALTH AND THE FEELING OF NOT
BEING SUPPORTED BY OUR ELECTED
DID NOT INCLUDE THE CITY
COUNCIL.
WE THE MUSLIM ARAB COMMUNITY
WANT TO BE SAFE.
WE WANT TO
BE SUPPORTED.
WE WANT TO LIVE IN PEACE,
DISCRIMINATION AND SILENCE IS
RUNNING RAMPANT AND INCREASED
FEELING OF FEAR.
ISRAEL WE ARE SCARED.
I DO APPRECIATE THE STATEMENT
THAT THE SHERIFF DID PUT OUT
RECENTLY TO SUPPORT ALL MEMBERS
OF OUR COMMUNITY.
BUT I ASK CITY COUNCIL TO
PROVIDE A STATEMENT AND ACTIONS
TO ENSURE THAT YOU HEAR US AND
WILL SUPPORT YOUR CONSTITUENTS
.
PLEASE ENSURE THAT THERE IS
INCREASING PROTEST AND PLACES
OF WORSHIP SUCH AS MOSQUES AND
SYNAGOGUES.
PLEASE ENSURE THAT THERE ARE
INCREASED RESOURCES FOR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO USE TO
HELP THEM THROUGH THE PAIN AND
MENTAL STRUGGLE AND TRAUMA
FACED EVERY DAY.
PLEASE USE YOUR ADVOCACY AS
ELECTED AS WE ALL DO TO SUPPORT
A CEASEFIRE IN GAZA AND ISRAEL
RIGHT NOW AND TO ENSURE THAT
ALL FUNDING AND SUPPORT ARE
PROVIDED FOR HUMANITARIAN AID
FOR THOSE THAT NEED IT IN THAT
REGION ESPECIALLY ESPECIALLY
LOOKING AT FUNDING TO SUPPORT
WEAPONS AGAIN PLEASE USE YOUR
ADVOCACY TO PRIORITIZE THE
FUNDING FOR HUMANITARIAN AID.
AND I DO WANT TO SAY PLEASE TO
END IT PLEASE DO NOT FAIL US.
WE ELECTED TO SERVE ALL THE
MEMBERS OF OUR COMMUNITY AND WE
NEED ACTION NOW.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JONATHAN
.
I THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME AND
AGAIN IT'S A PLEASURE TO BE
HERE.
I'M GLAD EVERYONE'S HERE ALSO
AND I'M GLAD EVERYONE'S
SPEAKING.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
SO I'M HERE TO TALK ABOUT MOST
ITEMS ON THE AGENDA LIST AND
THAT IS WE CAN'T AFFORD IT.
THIS IS A CALL TO REDUCE
SPENDING, REDUCE EXPENDITURE
EXPANSION AND LOWER TAXES AND
INCREASE RESOURCES FOR THE POOR
THE ONES WHO REALLY NEED IT.
IN MY OPINION THIS IS NOW MORE
IMPORTANT THAN EVER BECAUSE
PEOPLE NEED AS MUCH HELP AS
THEY CAN GET.
CREDIT CARD DEBT IS AT ALL TIME
HIGHS, SAVINGS AND EXTREME LOWS
AND PRICES KEEP GOING UP AND I
FEAR THIS IS JUST THE
BEGINNING.
THERE'S A GOOD CHANCE WE'LL BE
ENTERING A STAGFLATIONARY
DEPRESSION IN TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR.
WHAT THIS MEANS THE ECONOMY
RETRACTS, UNEMPLOYMENT RISES
AND AT THE SAME TIME COST
OF FOOD AND ENERGY AND
ESSENTIALS WILL KEEP GOING UP.
THIS IS ALL BECAUSE OF A DEBT
BUBBLE THAT WE INFLATED FOR
FIFTY YEARS.
WE HAD GOVERNMENT SPENDING BY
MONETIZING THE DEBT WHICH MEANS
WE PRINTED IT TO PAY FOR
EVERYTHING.
THAT ILLUSION OF WEALTH IS
BURSTING.
THE BUBBLE WE INFLATED IS
THE REVERSE REPO MARKET IS
BURSTING.
BEING DRAINED OF CASH TO PROP
THE REVERSE REPO MARKET IS
UP THE TREASURY MARKET.
BEING DRAINED OF CASH TO PROP
THE FAILING TREASURY MARKET IS
UP THE TREASURY MARKET.
WREAKING HAVOC ON THE BANKS
THE FAILING TREASURY MARKET IS
BALANCE SHEET.
WREAKING HAVOC ON THE BANKS
THE RESCUE BANK LENDING TERM
BALANCE SHEET.
PROGRAM EXPIRES IN MARCH SO
THE RESCUE BANK LENDING TERM
IT'S ONLY A MATTER OF TIME
PROGRAM EXPIRES IN MARCH SO
BEFORE THE FEDERAL RESERVE WILL
IT'S ONLY A MATTER OF TIME
NEED TO STEP IN AND START START
BEFORE THE FEDERAL RESERVE WILL
THE MONEY INFLATIONARY MACHINE
NEED TO STEP IN AND START START
BACK UP AT WHICH POINT PRICES
THE MONEY INFLATIONARY MACHINE
WILL RISE FASTER, THE DOLLAR
BACK UP AT WHICH POINT PRICES
COLLAPSES AND LOSES PURCHASING
WILL RISE FASTER, THE DOLLAR
POWER.
COLLAPSES AND LOSES PURCHASING
THE END RESULT IS PEOPLE
POWER.
STRUGGLE MORE TO MAKE ENDS MEET
THE END RESULT IS PEOPLE
AND LIFE GETS TOUGHER.
STRUGGLE MORE TO MAKE ENDS MEET
NOW IS NOT THE TIME TO SPEND WE
AND LIFE GETS TOUGHER.
HAVE WE CANNOT AFFORD IT NOW
NOW IS NOT THE TIME TO SPEND WE
IT'S TIME TO REDUCE SPENDING
HAVE WE CANNOT AFFORD IT NOW
GREATLY REIN IN THE DEBT AND
IT'S TIME TO REDUCE SPENDING
BRING TAXES DOWN SIGNIFICANTLY
GREATLY REIN IN THE DEBT AND
TO HELP OUR RESIDENTS WHO IN
BRING TAXES DOWN SIGNIFICANTLY
TURN WILL HELP THE COMMUNITY.
TO HELP OUR RESIDENTS WHO IN
I KNOW THIS BECAUSE I KNOW ANN
TURN WILL HELP THE COMMUNITY.
ARBOR AND THAT'S WHAT WE DO.
I KNOW THIS BECAUSE I KNOW ANN
THANK YOU.
ARBOR AND THAT'S WHAT WE DO.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ANNIE
THANK YOU.
WILLCOCK
.
THANK YOU FOR THIS OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK TO YOU TONIGHT AM WITH
YOU TONIGHT.
I WANTED TO SAY RHEMA THANK YOU
FOR YOUR WORDS.
I AGREE WITH WITH YOUR THOUGHTS
.
I DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE SIGNS
AND WOULD X ASK THAT THEY GET
REMOVED ANYWAY I COME HERE AS A
DECADES LONG AND HARD MOMENT.
SIR, PLEASE BRING YOUR SON DOWN
BELOW SHOULDER LEVEL.
I BELIEVE YOU ARE AWARE OF THE
RULES
I COME HERE IS A DECADES
LONG ANN ARBOR CITIZEN AND
DOWNTOWN BUSINESS OWNER.
I'M ALSO A JEW AND I'M ALSO
HURTING.
I'M NOT HERE TO EDUCATE OR
PONTIFICATE ABOUT THE
ATROCITIES THAT HAVE OCCURRED
IN THE MIDDLE EAST OVER THE
PAST MONTH OR THE PAST TWENTY
FIVE HUNDRED YEARS.
BUT ON OCTOBER 7TH HAMAS
MASSACRE OVER A THOUSAND JEWISH
CIVILIANS BECAUSE THEY WERE
JEWS THEY WERE SLAUGHTERED AND
TORTURED.
LET US NOT FORGET THIS HISTORIC
TRAGEDY AS THE MEDIA MEDIA
CYCLE SPEEDS ON.
AS A JEW I WANT TO HEAR FROM MY
CIVIC LEADERS IN THESE TIMES
OF INCREASED HATE,
ANTI-SEMITISM AND ISLAMOPHOBIA
.
SOWMYA
, I WANT TO HEAR FROM YOU
MY LEADERS.
I WANT YOU TO STAND UP AND LEAD
OUR CITY TOWARDS UNITY AND
PEACE AND AWAY FROM THIS HATE.
MAYBE YOU CAN'T SPEAK AS A
GROUP AND SPEAK FOR THE WHOLE
CITY.
I TRULY GET THAT.
BUT I BELIEVE NOTHING IS
STOPPING YOU FROM SPEAKING UP
ON YOUR OWN AS INDIVIDUALS YOU
EACH HAVE A PLATFORM THE ONE
YOU RAN ON THE PLATFORM YOU
CAMPAIGNED ON IT INDEED BE
STANDING UP AGAINST
ANTI-SEMITISM.
YOUR SILENCE ON THIS MATTER IS
DEAFENING.
SILENCE DOES NOT PROTECT US AS
LEADERS FOR THAT MATTER ALL
OF US I'M ASKING YOU TO COUNTER
THE HATE WHERE THERE ARE
PROTESTS AT LOCAL LEVEL WE HERE
AND WE SEE WE HEAR THE HATE
SPEECH.
PLEASE STEP SPEAK OUT EVERY
TIME I UNDERSTAND YOU THE
COUNCIL ARE LIMITED IN WHAT YOU
CAN DO.
BUT WITH THE WEEKLY PROTESTS AT
BETH ISRAEL CONGREGATION WITH
ITS MISINFORMATION AND VIOLENCE
PROVOKING POSTER CAMPAIGNS, WE
NEED YOUR VOICES TO LEAD THE
WAY TOWARDS PEACE BY SPEAKING
UP AGAINST HATE.
WE NEED YOU TO STAND UP AND
SPEAK OUT.
SILENCE DOES NOT PROTECT US.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PETER X10.
HELLO.
I GREW UP IN CHICAGO WHERE A
POLITICAL MACHINE GREW LARGE
AMOUNTS OF MONEY FROM
BENEFICIARIES OF CITY
DECISIONS.
IT ONLY APPOINTED LOYALIST'S
ESPECIALLY THOSE WHOSE
POLITICAL CREDENTIALS IT SOUGHT
TO BURNISH ONLY ONE WARD OUT
OF FIFTY COULD ELECT A
CHALLENGER SO COUNCIL VOTES
WERE FORTY NINE TO ONE.
HERE A POLITICAL MACHINE IS
ELECTED THE MAYOR AND ALL TEN
COUNCIL MEMBERS ISSUES ARE NOT
DEBATED AND VOTES ARE ALMOST
ALWAYS UNANIMOUS IN THE LAST
CITY COUNCIL MACHINE CANDIDATES
OVERALL OUTRAISED THEIR RIVALS
BY TWO AND A HALF TO ONE THE
MONEY PAID FOR CAMPAIGN STAFF,
MAILINGS AND DOOR KNOCKING.
SUCH VICTORIES ARE NOT ALWAYS
THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE BUT
OFTEN THAT OF BIG MONEY MUCH
FROM OUTSIDE THE WARD AND EVEN
OUTSIDE THE CITY.
SOME OF THE MACHINES MONEY CAME
FROM DISINTERESTED WEALTHY
DONORS BUT MUCH FROM WEALTHY
DONORS AND PACS WITH A
FINANCIAL INTEREST IN CITY
ACTIONS.
OUR MICHIGAN CONTRIBUTION
LIMITS ARE ALREADY OUTRAGEOUSLY
HIGH MORE THAN TWELVE HUNDRED
DOLLARS FOR COUNCIL AND TWICE
THAT FOR MAYOR.
ONE SPOUSE CAN DONATE TWELVE
HUNDRED DOLLARS TO A COUNCIL
CANDIDATE THE OTHER TWELVE THE
OTHER CAN DONATE TWELVE HUNDRED
TO AND A PAC THEY SUPPORT CAN
DONATE TWELVE THOUSAND MORE.
THEY CAN EASILY OVERWHELM THE
FIFTY AND HUNDRED CONTRIBUTIONS
FROM SMALL NEIGHBORHOOD
FUNDRAISERS.
YET NOW WE SEE THE CREATION
OF A NEW BLACK TO SUPPORT
MACHINE CANDIDATES.
IT WILL BE A NEW WAY FOR
WEALTHY INTERESTS TO DEVOTE
DONATE EVEN MORE PROGRESSIVE'S
IN MICHIGAN HAVE IN AMERICA
HAVE LONG STRUGGLED TO REDUCE
THE ROLE OF BIG MONEY IN
POLITICS.
A REARGUARD EFFORT AGAINST
ENTRENCHED REPUBLICAN POWER
SINK MITCH MCCONNELL THANK
CITIZENS UNITED I CHARLES WHAT
CAN YOU DO?
COUNCIL CAN CREATE A CITY FUND
TO DONATE MODEST PUBLIC FUNDS
TO SOMEONE MEETING A THRESHOLD
OF SUPPORT SAY TWICE THE NUMBER
OF SIGNATURES NEEDED TO RUN
INDIVIDUALLY.
YOU CAN PLEDGE A SOME OF YOU
MAY HAVE DONE TO REFUSE ANY PAC
MONEY AND FUTURE CAMPAIGNS AND
YOU CAN SPEAK OUT AGAINST YET
ANOTHER PAC DESIGNED TO BOLSTER
EVEN FURTHER THE COFFERS OF THE
MACHINE DEMOCRACY IN ANN ARBOR
MAY BE ALREADY DEAD BUT IF IT
STILL HAS A GLIMMER OF LIFE
THIS NEW PAC COULD ADMINISTER
THE COUP DE GRACE
.
THANK YOU.
INSOFAR AS WE HAVE NOT REACHED
FORTY FIVE MINUTES OF PUBLIC
COMMENT WE HAVE TIME FOR ONE
MORE SPEAKER.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HENRY
HERSKOVITS.
THAT EVENING THE ANN ARBOR
PUBLIC SCHOOLS CURRICULUM ON
THE HOLOCAUST OFTEN REFERS OUR
STUDENTS TO INFORMATION
PROVIDED BY THE UNITED STATES
HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM IN
WASHINGTON DC THIS SOURCE
PROVIDES A SECTION ON WHAT IS
KNOWN AS THE ONE CONFERENCE
WHERE OUR STUDENTS LEARN ABOUT
THE FINAL SOLUTION.
THE STUDENT TOLD THE FINAL
SOLUTION WAS THE CODE NAME FOR
THE SYSTEMATIC DELIBERATE
PHYSICAL ANNIHILATION OF THE
EUROPEAN JEWS BUT WITH NO
CORROBORATING EVIDENCE IT'S
MERELY SUPPOSITION ON THE PART
OF THE MUSEUM IT HAS BEEN
CHALLENGED BY REVISIONIST
REVISIONIST HISTORIANS.
ONE SUCH HISTORIAN IS FRANCIS
DU PONT WHO AUTHORED THIS
BOOKLET TO TALL TALES FROM THE
GERMAN WOODS THE MYTH OF THE
VONTAE CONFERENCE.
IN IT WE HAVE THE COMPLETE
PHOTOSTATIC TRANSCRIPTS, THE
MINUTES OF THE VONTAE
CONFERENCE.
YES THEY ARE IN GERMAN AND YES
THESE TRANSLATIONS MAY NOT BE
CORRECT BUT IF ANY GERMAN
LANGUAGE EXPERT WOULD LIKE TO
TAKE A LOOK AT THESE MINUTES
THEY ARE READILY AVAILABLE
ACCORDING TO DUPA DU PONT THE
MINUTES ACTUALLY EXISTS.
THE PHYSICAL MINUTES ACTUALLY
EXIST UNDER THE GLASS AT THE
VONTAE VILLA MUSEUM BUT VERY
FEW TAKE THE TIME TO READ THEM.
HE WRITES NOWHERE IN THE VAN
SAY MEETING OR ITS MINUTES IS
THE MURDER OF JEWS DISCUSSED
ONLY THEIR EMIGRATION AND
FORCED EVACUATION TO THE
EASTERN TERRITORIES OPENED UP
AFTER THE GERMAN INVASION
OF THE SOVIET UNION.
HE CONTINUES INSTEAD
OF PLOTTING MASS MURDER OF ALL
JEWS, THE VONTAE CONFERENCE
MINUTES ACTUALLY TALK ABOUT
KEEPING LARGE NUMBER OF JEWS IN
GERMANY.
PERHAPS WE THINK THIS FRANCIS
DU PONT IS AN ANTI SEMITIC
HOLOCAUST DENIER AND WILL SAY
ANYTHING.
SO WE TURN TO YEHUDA BAUER WHOM
WICKIUP DESCRIBES AS A CZECH
BORN ISRAELI HISTORY AND
SCHOLAR OF THE HOLOCAUST.
HERE'S WHAT PROFESSOR BAUER
SAID QUOTED BY THE CANADIAN
JEWISH NEWS JAN THIRTY NINETEEN
NINETY TWO THE PUBLIC STILL
REPEATS TIME AFTER TIME THE
SILLY STORY THAT ADVANCE THE
EXTERMINATION OF THE JEWS WAS
ARRIVED AT.
THERE ARE MANY OTHER SOURCES
THAT OUR STUDENTS COULD ACCESS
THAT WOULD ALLOW THEM TO COMPLY
WITH THEIR MANDATED EDUCATION
ON THE HOLOCAUST.
RESPONSIBLE LEADERS SHOULD
ENCOURAGE THIS ACCESS.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL CATHERINE RADDEST
NOWHERE IN THE US CONSTITUTION
IS THE WORD SLAVE OR SLAVERY
MENTIONED BUT THERE ARE FOR
ARTICLES IN THE CONSTITUTION
THAT ENABLE ITS LEGISLATION
THAT PROTECTED LEGISLATIVELY SO
THAT IT CANNOT BE VOTED OUT
OF PRACTICE AND THERE ARE TWO
MORE OF WHICH RIGHT NOW ARE NOT
IN MY HEAD IT'S REALLY I'M
SORRY THAT AT A TIME WHEN THERE
IS A GENUINE CRISIS IN THE
WORLD WHICH IS LIVE WE ARE
TREATED IN THIS ROOM WHICH IS A
ROOM OF SOBER AND HONEST
DELIBERATION.
WE ARE TREATED TO FALSE AND
INCENDIARY SPEECH.
I AM GENUINELY SORRY ABOUT THAT
.
I WAS GOING TO SAY SOMETHING
ABOUT BIRD ROAD BUT I JUST I'M
SURE EVERYONE WILL GET THE
POSTCARD AND I WILL STOP THERE
TELL TO NO SONG
FOR THE FOLKS
WHO ARE HERE IN PERSON AND
YOU'RE CONFUSED.
YES, WE DID JUST HAVE A
HOLOCAUST DENIER GIVE PUBLIC
COMMENTS AND I WILL CONTINUE MY
MY PROMISE WHICH IS WHENEVER A
HOLOCAUST AND I ARE COUNTING
YOUR PUBLIC COMMENTS TO CITY
COUNCIL I WILL DONATE A
THOUSAND DOLLARS TO JEWISH
FAMILY SERVICES AND
ORGANIZATION.
I SERVE ON THE BOARD FOR WHICH
WE WILL BE CELEBRATING A 30TH
YEAR ANNIVERSARY THIS SUNDAY IN
REFLECTION OF THEIR WORK THEIR
GOOD WORK THAT THEY DO IN THIS
COMMUNITY RESETTLING MOSTLY
MUSLIM REFUGEES FROM
AFGHANISTAN, CURRENTLY UKRAINE.
THIRTY YEARS OF GOOD WORK DOING
SOCIAL SERVICES AND HOUSING
FOOD PANTRY MAKING SURE HALAL
MEAT AND CULTURALLY APPROPRIATE
FOODS ARE DELIVERED TO TWO NEW
AMERICANS.
IF WE ARE GOING TO TALK ABOUT
THE HARM AND HURTING COMMUNITY
I WILL SAY THIS RIGHT NOW WE'VE
HEARD THIS A NUMBER OF US HAVE
BEEN THREE MEETINGS A YEAR A
PRETTY PRETTY REGULARLY FROM
JEWISH COMMUNITY MEMBERS I HEAR
DIRECTLY FROM TRUSTE MOHAMED
WHO I'M SO GLAD SHE CAME HERE
IN PERSON TO SHARE HER GRIEF
GRIEF THAT SHE SHARED WHEN SHE
INVITED MOST OF US.
I THINK THE ONES YOU COULD
ATTEND TO THE MOSQUE AND
ISLAMIC CENTER TWO WEEKS AGO AM
MIGHT I ADD WITH A FULL SPREAD
OF BAKED GOODS AND TREATS?
IT WAS INCREDIBLE TO TALK ABOUT
THE SHARED GRIEF BUT THEN ALSO
HOST US IN WAYS THAT IT JUST
SHOWS I THINK THE CARE AND LOVE
THAT WE ARE CAPABLE THIS
COMMUNITY AND I HOPE THAT WE
CAN REFLECT ON THAT.
I DO WANT TO SAY THE ONE
COMMENT THAT I DID BRING UP TO
BOTH COMMUNITIES WHO ARE
FEELING UNSAFE AND UNHEARD IS
THAT WE ARE HEARING VERY
SIMILAR CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
BEING ABLE TO IDENTIFY IN
PUBLIC IN OUR COMMUNITY AS
MUSLIM AND AS JEWISH AND IT
MADE ME REFLECT ON AN ANTI
ASIAN HATE RESOLUTION WE PASSED
A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO WHEN WE
HAD COMMITTEE MEMBERS WHO ARE
FACING SIMILAR GRIEF, SIMILAR
THE DISCRIMINATION BEING TOLD
TO GO BACK TO WHERE WE COME
FROM AND SPIT ON AS YOU WALK IN
THE NEIGHBORHOODS BEING BLAMED
FOR COVID.
SO I KNOW I'VE TALKED TO A
COUPLE OF COUNCIL MEMBERS AND
WE'D LIKE TO BE ABLE TO REFLECT
ON HOW WE CAN'T WE WE DO NOT
SUPPORT HATE AND DISCRIMINATION
IN OUR COMMUNITY.
WE DO HAVE A HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION.
WE DO HAVE WAYS OF WORKING WITH
OUR POLICE.
WE DO HAVE COMMITMENTS FROM THE
COUNTY SHERIFF.
WE'VE HEARD FROM STATE REPS WHO
ARE WORKING ON HATE CRIMES
LEGISLATION.
SO YOU'RE NOT I'M HOPEFUL THAT
WE CAN BE PRODUCTIVE AND IF IF
YOU HAVEN'T HEARD BACK FROM US
MY APOLOGIES.
KOTSENBURG MARZIANO.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I WANT TO SHARE A LOT OF THE
SIMILAR THOUGHTS THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER SONG JUST SHARED.
I WANT TO THANK COMMUNITY
MEMBERS FOR COMING OUT HERE
TODAY.
WE HEAR YOU AND WE'RE SORRY
THAT YOU'VE HEARD NOTHING AND
WE ARE HAVING CONVERSATIONS
WITH BOTH COMMUNITIES ABOUT
WHAT WE CAN DO.
I ALSO WANT TO FIRMLY DENOUNCE
HENRY HERSKOVITS.
IT HAS BEEN REPEATED HOLOCAUST
AND OUT HERE IT'S INAPPROPRIATE
AND IT'S HORRIBLE.
SO YOU KNOW, AS SOMEONE WHO
COMES FROM A FAMILY THAT HAS
BOTH MUSLIM AND JEWISH FAMILY
MEMBERS, I REALIZE THE DIVISION
AND THE TRAUMA THAT THE
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICT IS
GOING TO HAVE ON GENERATIONS
OF PEOPLE AND NOT JUST ABROAD
HERE AT HOME AS I SAID, I AND
SOME MY COUNCIL COLLEAGUES HAVE
BEEN MEETING WITH BOTH THE
JEWISH AND MUSLIM COMMUNITY
LEADERS AND AS COUNCIL MEMBERS
SONG SHARED THEIR STRIKING
SIMILARITIES IN WHAT BOTH
COMMUNITIES SAY THEY FEEL THEY
FEEL FEAR FEARFUL TO IDENTIFY
WITH THEIR RELIGIOUS GROUP TO
SPEAK OUT ON THESE ISSUES THEY
FEAR FOR SAFETY AND SECURITY
OF THEIR DAYCARE CENTERS,
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS, PLACES
OF WORSHIP.
AND I'M THANKFUL TO THE ANN
ARBOR POLICE DEPARTMENT BECAUSE
I HAVE BEEN IN AND SOME
OF THESE CONVERSATIONS AND
THEY'RE HAVING DISCUSSIONS WHAT
KIND OF INCREASED SECURITY THEY
CAN PROVIDE.
I ALSO WANT TO JUST ENCOURAGE
ALL OF US TO DO OUR DO OUR PART
TO MAKE SURE WE CONTINUE TO
UPHOLD THE VALUES OF OUR
COMMUNITY.
AS YOU ALL KNOW, THERE HAVE
BEEN RAMPANT ANTI-SEMITIC HATE
CRIMES ACROSS THE NATION A RISE
IN ISLAMOPHOBIA.
WE MUST STRIVE TO DISTINGUISH
THE ACTIONS OF A COUNTRY'S
GOVERNMENT OR OF A POLITICAL
ENTITY FROM PEOPLE AND WE MUST
FORCEFULLY SPEAK OUT AGAINST
ANTI-SEMITISM AND ISLAMOPHOBIA.
ANN ARBOR IS NO PLACE FOR HATE
NOT AGAINST MUSLIM PEOPLE, NOT
AGAINST JEWISH PEOPLE, NOT
AGAINST ARAB AMERICANS, NOT
AGAINST ISRAELI AMERICANS NOR
AGAINST PALESTINIANS, AMERICANS
OR ANYONE ELSE.
WE MUST ALSO HELP OUR JEWISH
AND MUSLIM COMMUNITIES TO SEE
THEIR SHARED HUMANITY VALUES
AND VALUES AND MOVE FORWARD
TOGETHER AS COMMUNITY UNITED
AGAINST HATE TOWARDS ANYONE.
AS I SAID, I AND OTHER COUNCIL
MEMBERS ARE GOING TO CONTINUE
OUR WORK WORKING WITH BOTH
COMMUNITIES.
WE WANT YOU ALL TO REACH OUT TO
US AND IF YOU OR ANYONE YOU
KNOW HAS EXPERIENCED HATE OR
DISCRIMINATION, PLEASE CONTACT
THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION,
FILE A COMPLAINT AT HRC AT
EIGHT TO GUARD DOG.
YOU CAN ALSO CALL SEVEN THREE
FOUR SEVEN NINE FOUR SIX ONE
FOUR ONE AND YOU CAN FIND THAT
INFORMATION ON THE CITY'S
WEBSITE.
SO THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER.
LOTS
OF YOU KNOW I GROWING UP
HERE IN ANN ARBOR IT WAS IT WAS
JUST AS COMMON TO GO TO A
PASSOVER SEDER AS IT WAS AND
AFTER AND WHAT WE'RE HEARING
FROM THESE COMMUNITIES TODAY IN
THIS ROOM
IN CALLS I'VE GOTTEN
FROM CONSTITUENTS IS THAT
PEOPLE WANT TO TO LIVE, WORK,
WORSHIP AND PLAY IN PEACE NOT
WORRYING ABOUT THEIR IDENTITY
AND HOW THAT COULD RESULT IN
ANY SORT OF VIOLENCE, ASSAULT,
DISCRIMINATION.
SO I THANK MY COLLEAGUES FOR
SPEAKING AND I THINK COMMUNITY
MEMBERS FOR COMING OUT TONIGHT.
IT'S ALWAYS HARD TO TRANSITION
IN THESE CONTEXTS BUT AS PART
OF MY CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO
CONSTITUENT ENGAGEMENT, I'D
LIKE TO INVITE WORD TO
RESIDENTS TO JOIN ME AT MY NEXT
LISTENING SESSION SUNDAY
NOVEMBER 19 FROM THREE TO FOUR
THIRTY PM AT SWEETWATERS ON
PLYMOUTH AND GREEN.
IN ADDITION, I WANTED TO LET
PEOPLE KNOW THAT THERE IS THE
AN INFO SESSION FOR THE TSAY
ONE TRANSIT CORRIDOR ZONING
PROPOSAL FOR WASHINGTON AVENUE
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16 AT SIX
THIRTY PM AT PITTSFIELD
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
THERE'S ALSO INFORMATION ABOUT
THAT ON THE PLANNING WEBSITE.
JUST FINALLY YESTERDAY I GOT
THE CHANCE TO CELEBRATE WITH
WASHTENAW COUNTY MY BROTHER'S
KEEPER AT THEIR ANNUAL BANQUET
AND AN OBAMA ERA INITIATIVE AND
YOUNG MEN OF COLOR IN CITIES,
COUNTIES AND TRIBAL COMMUNITIES
NATIONWIDE AND A PERSONAL NOTE
I'VE HAD THE PLEASURE
OF ATTENDING THEIR REGULAR
SATURDAY BREAKFASTS.
IT IS AN HONOR TO CELEBRATE
WITH PROGRAM COORDINATOR JAMAL
BUFFORD AND OUR NATIVE AND
CURRENT COMMISSIONER AND IN
ADDITION PEACE NEIGHBORHOOD
CENTER AND DIRECT DIRECTOR AND
XPAC MEMBER BODYBUILDER'S WAS
HONORED WITH AN AWARD HE USED
TO BRIGHT FUTURES FOR YOUNG
PEOPLE OF COLOR IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
COUNCIL MEMBER AKMAN.
THANK YOU.
I KNOW OUR JEWISH AND ARAB
COMMUNITY MEMBERS ARE HURTING
AND I DON'T PRETEND TO KNOW
WHAT THE ANSWERS ARE TO THIS
HUMANITARIAN INTERNATIONAL
CRISIS AND PERHAPS THAT'S A
REASON WHY I HAVEN'T SPOKEN
BEFORE NOW.
BUT WHAT I DO KNOW IS THAT
ANTI-SEMITISM AND ISLAMOPHOBIA
ARE UNACCEPTABLE AND HAVE NO
PLACE IN OUR COMMUNITY AND I
THANK YOU FOR COMING AND
SPEAKING TONIGHT FOR BEING
BRAVE TO TELL US WHAT YOUR
COMMUNITIES ARE GOING THROUGH,
WHAT YOU'RE EXPERIENCING THAT
YOU'RE FEELING NOT HEARD.
I'M READY TO LISTEN AND PROVIDE
THE SUPPORT THAT OUR
COMMUNITIES NEED THROUGH THIS
TIME.
FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL
ON SEPTEMBER ATAMI ON
OCTOBER SIX THERE WERE SECURITY
GUARDS IN FRONT OF OUR
SYNAGOGUES, OUR MOSQUES AND
OTHER RELIGIOUS CULTURAL SITES
BECAUSE THE EXPERIENCE
OF HARASSMENT AND VULNERABILITY
IN ANN ARBOR IS A CONSTANT AND
TANGIBLE CONCERN FOR THESE
COMMUNITIES.
THESE CONDITIONS ARE THE RESULT
OF DECADES AND CENTURIES AND
MILLENNIA OF HATE AND VIOLENCE
AND WE NEED TO RECOGNIZE AND
SAY TIME AND TIME AGAIN THAT
THEY ARE ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
UNACCEPTABLE ISLAMOPHOBIA
ANTI-SEMITISM ARE WRONG AND OUR
MUSLIMS AND JEWS ARE ISRAELIS,
ARABS AND PALESTINA THEY AND
EACH OF US HAVE A RIGHT TO FREE
EXPRESSION TO SAFE UNPROTECTED
WORSHIP TO PHYSICAL SECURITY
AND A RIGHT TO PEACE.
ON OCTOBER 7TH THESE TENSIONS
AND THESE VULNERABILITIES
ALREADY DEEPLY PRESENT IN OUR
COMMUNITY INCREASED
GEOMETRICALLY THE HORRORS
OF THAT DAY AND SINCE AND THE
DEHUMANIZING RHETORIC AND WORSE
TARGETING TARGETING AND
DEHUMANIZATION OF JEWS
TARGETING AND DEHUMANIZATION
OF MUSLIMS.
IT CREATES MAN PLEASE BRING
YOUR SIDE DOWN.
THANK YOU.
OUR TARGETING AND
DEHUMANIZATION OF MUSLIMS IT
CREATES INCREDIBLY HARMFUL
DIVISIONS AMONG COMMUNITY
MEMBERS WHO ARE NOW HURTING.
IT PUSHES GROUPS TO THEIR
CORNERS.
BUT IT ALSO AND CRUCIALLY I
BELIEVE CREATES A PERMISSION
STRUCTURE AND OPPORTUNITY FOR
ANTISEMITE AND ISLAMOPHOBIA
ALREADY AMONG US TO ADVANCE
THEIR PREEXISTING AGENDA
OF HATE.
WE CANNOT LET THIS CONFLICT
BUILD FURTHER HERE AT HOME.
WE CANNOT HAVE A COMMUNITY
SPLIT APART.
WE CANNOT FEED OCTOBER SIX
HATREDS GIVING ALREADY ARE
ALREADY VULNERABLE COMMUNITIES
COMMUNITIES FUEL TO THEIR EVER
PRESENT AND REASONABLE FEAR
OF ANOTHER TREE OF LIFE ANOTHER
CHRIST.
WE HERE AT THE CITY ARE
COMMITTED AND WILL CONTINUE TO
WORK WITH ALL COMMUNITY
RELIGIOUS AND OTHER GROUPS TO
ENSURE AS BEST WE CAN THEIR
SAFETY DURING THESE PERILOUS
TIMES AND THEREAFTER AND DO
ANYTHING WE CAN TO PROMOTE AND
BRING ABOUT COMMUNITY
UNDERSTANDING AND HEALING.
ABSOLUTELY ANYTHING AND A BIT
PERHAPS ON ON UNITY MORE
GENERALLY SINCE SINCE THE
HORRORS OF THE PAST WEEKS,
MEMBERS OF COURSE OF THE ANN
COMMUNITY WITH TIES FAMILY TIES
,RELIGION AND HISTORY TO THE
CONFLICT HAS SPOKEN WITH ME AND
OTHER COUNCIL MEMBERS AND
ELECTED ABOUT THEIR ANGER,
ABOUT THEIR WOUNDS, THEIR
EMOTIONAL EXHAUSTION AND THEIR
FEAR, THEIR DEEP DESIRE TO BE
SEEN AND THEIR DEEP DESIRE TO
BE UNDERSTOOD.
IF THESE RECENT EVENTS TEACH US
ANYTHING, I BELIEVE IT IS THAT
THE LENS OF OUR MORAL CONCERN
MUST WIDEN, NOT NARROW.
AND DURING TIMES SUCH AS THESE
WHEN SO MANY IN ANN ARBOR ARE
HURTING, WE KNOW THAT THERE IS
ONLY ONE PATH WITH THE PROMISE
OF UNITY AND THAT IS TO
RECOGNIZE AND TO ACT UPON A
COMMON HUMANITY TO SHARE AND
VALIDATE AND CRUCIALLY TO SPEAK
THE GRIEF OF THE OTHER EVEN AS
WE GRIEVE OURSELVES.
I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS THAT WERE
PRESENTED TO CITY COUNCIL FOR
CONSIDERATION ON OCTOBER 16
TWENTY TWENTY THREE TO THE TO
THE ELIZABETH DEAN FUND
COMMITTEE SAMUEL ROSENZWEIG TO
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
TREVENA RAMASWAMY MOTION PLEASE
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG
SECOND BY KJELDSEN MCCRINDLE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER SONG
.
I'D LIKE TO NOTE THAT PRITINA
RAMASWAMY IS WAS PREVIOUSLY
SERVED ON THE PARKS ADVISORY
COMMISSION AND IF ONLY MORE
RESIDENTS COULD BE
OVERACHIEVERS COMMIT TO
MULTIPLE COMMISSIONS.
SO I THANK YOU FOR BEING A
RAMASWAMY FOR ADDITIONAL TIME
AND COMMITMENT TO THE CITY FOR
THE DISCUSSION OF FAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVED.
I'D LIKE TO PRESENT THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE RETIREMENT
SYSTEMS BOARD.
ANTHONY GEOVANI JORDAN PRIOR TO
THE PUBLIC MARKET ADVISORY
COMMISSION AMA PARTY MAY THE
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CONSENT AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER AND DISCUSSION
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA FOR BRIGS
.
I JUST WANTED TO BRIEFLY SPEAK
ON ITEM C A TWO WHICH IS THE
CITYWIDE DRAINAGE ANALYSIS AND
ESSENTIALLY WANTED TO THANK
STAFF PUBLIC SERVICES STAFF
BRIAN STEIGLITZ FOR ALL
OF THEIR WORK TO BRING THAT TO
US TODAY THEY HAVE BEEN
LISTENING TO FIFTH WARD
RESIDENTS, ONE OF WHOM YOU
CALLED IN TONIGHT, MR. SANSBURY
AND MANY OF HIS NEIGHBORS
WHO'VE BEEN VERY VOCAL ON THIS
ISSUE AND I REALLY APPRECIATE
THEM BRINGING THIS TO ME EARLY
IN MY TERM.
IT'S GREAT TO SEE US AS A CITY
BEING WILLING TO PIVOT AND
EXAMINE THE SITUATION WITH
FRESH EYES, LOOK FOR NEW
SOLUTIONS AND RECOGNIZE THAT
THE SEVERITY OF THE ISSUE THAT
THE ISSUE IS GETTING MORE
SEVERE.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING WAS LED BY
THE THE THE FOLKS THAT ARE
LIVING IN THE FIFTH WARD ON THE
WARDS OFF OF DEXTER.
BUT IT'S GOING TO END UP
BENEFITING EVERYBODY ACROSS THE
CITY WHO LIVES ON GRAVEL ROADS
AS WELL AS WE GO THROUGH THIS
FOUR YEAR ANALYSIS.
I HOPE EVERYBODY WILL BE
EXCITED TO SUPPORT THIS TONIGHT
.
CARL ZIMMER DISH.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I WANT TO SPEAK TO C11 AND I
JUST WANT TO NOTE HOW PLEASED I
AM THAT THE MICHIGAN PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION HAS REACHED
A SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT WITH DTI
REGARDING COMPENSATION FOR
CUSTOMERS WITH ROOFTOP SOLAR.
THE AGREEMENT RAISES THE CAP
FROM ONE PERCENT TO SIX PERCENT
OF DTD AVERAGE IN STATE FIVE
CALENDAR YEAR PEAK LOAD WHICH
GREATLY INCREASES THE NUMBER
OF CUSTOMERS WHO CAN BE
COMPENSATED FOR GENERATING MORE
SOLAR ENERGY THAN THEY USE.
THIS MEANS THAT OUTSIDE CAN GO
FORWARD TO ACCELERATE AND
EXPAND OUR EFFORTS TO INSTALL
ROOFTOP SOLAR WITHOUT WORRYING
ABOUT HITTING A CAP OR OTHER
PROVISIONS OF THE SETTLEMENT
ALSO PROTECT CUSTOMERS BY
REQUIRING YOU TO FILE A NEW
CASE WHEN IT REACHES 90 PERCENT
OF THE PREVAILING CAP WHICH
WOULD BE SIX PERCENT UNDER THE
NEW AGREEMENT AND TO CONTINUE
COMPENSATING YOUR CUSTOMERS FOR
THEIR EXCESS ENERGY EVEN IF THE
CAP IS REACHED UNTIL THAT CASE
IS CONCLUDED OR FOR TWELVE
MONTHS FROM FILING WHICHEVER'S
FIRST.
SO THERE IS VERY LITTLE RISK
OF REACHING A POINT WHERE DTI
IS NOT OBLIGATED TO COMPENSATE
COMPENSATE PEOPLE WHO HAVE
SOLAR PANELS ON THEIR ROOFS FOR
THE EXCESS ENERGY THEY GENERATE
AND THAT IS REALLY GOOD
NEWS AT A TIME WHERE WE COULD
USE A LITTLE BIT OF IT FOR THE
DISCUSSION THE CONSENT AGENDA.
COUNCILOR MCCONNELL 18 I JUST
WANT TO THANK THE DDA AND THE
PUBLIC RESTROOM WORK GROUP FOR
THE TIME THAT THEY PUT INTO THE
ANALYSIS THE FEASIBILITY OF THE
THRONE IN OUR COMMUNITY.
THIS WAS AN INCREDIBLY
INCLUSIVE PROCESS, TOOK A OUT
OF TIME AND PARTICIPATION
ENSURED THAT A LOT
OF PERSPECTIVES WERE CONSIDERED
.
AND I JUST WANT TO NOTE AS A
FORMER BUSINESS OWNER A
REFORMED BUSINESS OWNER AND A
MEMBER OF THE MSA AND
DESTINATION BOARDS THIS IS
REALLY IMPORTANT FROM AN
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
PERSPECTIVE.
PUBLIC RESTROOMS INVITE
PARTICIPATION IN OUR DOWNTOWN
AND THEY'RE REALLY GOOD AT
FOSTERING TOURISM AND KNOWING
THAT THERE ARE CLEAN, SAFE
PUBLIC RESTROOMS READILY
AVAILABLE PEOPLE ARE MORE APT
TO VISIT AND IT ENCOURAGES
THE
TYPE OF TRANSPORTATION THAT WE
WANT TO SEE IN OUR DOWNTOWN
RIDING BIKES, JOGGING, WALKING,
BEING LEISURELY DOWNTOWN.
AND SO I'M EXCITED FOR THIS AND
I DO THINK THAT THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY DOES
DESERVE A LOT OF CREDIT FOR THE
AMOUNT OF TIME AND
PARTICIPATION THAT THEY INVITED
INTO THIS.
SO THANK YOU TO THE D.A. CARL
ZIMMER SIMILARILY JUST WANT TO
THANK CITY STAFF FOR KATINE AND
I THINK YOU KNOW SOME OF OUR
COUNCIL MEMBERS ALREADY
MENTIONED THAT HAVING THESE
PUBLICLY AVAILABLE RESTROOMS
THEY'RE AN EQUITY ISSUE, RACIAL
EQUITY ISSUE AND ALSO AN
ACCESSIBILITY ISSUE FOR OLDER
ADULTS AND PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES AND I SPOKE WITH
ONE OF OUR CITY STAFF MEMBERS
TODAY ABOUT JUST HOW MUCH
THEY'VE CENTERED EQUITY IN THIS
PROCESS.
THEY'RE GOING TO BE DEVELOPING
KEY CARDS FOR THOSE WHO DON'T
HAVE MOBILE PHONES WHICH IS
NEEDED TO ACCESS THE STORES.
AND I'VE ALSO TALKED TO THE
CITY ABOUT EXPLORING THE IDEA
OF POTENTIALLY CREATING A
PUBLICLY AVAILABLE LIST WHICH
IS SOMETHING THAT PORTLAND HAS
DONE WHERE ANY BUSINESS THAT
CHOOSES TO LIST THEMSELVES AS
PEOPLE CAN USE OUR RESTROOM
WOULD BE FEATURED ON THIS LIST
AS WELL AS ALL OF THE THRONE'S.
SO IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT JUST SO PEOPLE
CAN EASILY NAVIGATOR DOWNTOWN
AREA AND ACCESSIBLY NAVIGATE
IT.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED RATHER THE
CONSENT AGENDA IS APPROVED WITH
11 COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO A
SEVEN SEAT 17 AND 18.
WE DO NOT TODAY HAVE ANY PUBLIC
HEARINGS SO WE HAVE THE FORCE
TO WORK SESSION MINUTES
OF OCTOBER 10 IN THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF OCTOBER 16.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE MEMBER
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE
MINUTES MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES
OR FAVOR POSED.
THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED.
SEE WHAT NORDEN'S TO AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
AMENDMENTS TO THE APPROVED
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT LOCKWOOD OF ANN ARBOR
PUDI ZONING AND SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS TO ONE NINE FIVE E
ELSWORTH MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C
ONE COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
THIS IS A VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD
RESOLUTION OR ORDINANCE CHANGE
ACTUALLY ACCORDING TO A SURVEY
CONDUCTED BY THE DEVELOPER
DURING CONSTRUCTION FEEL THAT
THE BUILDING FOUNDATION
EXTENDED SLIGHTLY OVER THE E
SETBACKS BECAUSE THE FOUNDATION
WAS MADE AND THE BUILDING IS
UNDER CONSTRUCTION IT MAKES
MORE SENSE TO MAKE SLIGHT
REDUCTIONS TO THE SITE PLAN TO
THE EAST AND SOUTH SIDE
SETBACKS THEN IT DOES TO START
OVER REPAIRING THE FOUNDATION.
NO NEW CONSTRUCTION IS
PROPOSED.
THERE ARE NO OTHER CHANGES TO
THE SITE PLAN OR THE ZONING
REGULATIONS.
BUT THIS DOES IF NOTHING ELSE
ILLUSTRATE A DISADVANTAGE
OF ZONING BECAUSE SOMETHING
LIKE THIS SHOULD BE COMING TO
COUNCIL.
IT SHOULD BE A PLANNING MANAGER
APPROVAL BUT BECAUSE WE ARE
HAVING TO USE PDS IN CERTAIN
CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE OUR ZONING
DOES NOT FORWARD OUR GOALS, WE
ARE SEEING THIS AS A VOTE ON
COUNCIL SO PLEASE VOTE YES AND
EXPEDITIOUS WAY.
WELL AND NEXT TIME TWO MORE
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF ONE MORE
FAVOR BECAUSE IT'S APPROVED C
TO AN ORDINANCE AMEND THE
ZONING ACT BEING PART
OF SECTION FIVE TO OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY THEN REZONING
EIGHT POINT THREE ACRES FROM P
PARKING DISTRICT TO C TO B
BUSINESS TO SERVICE DISTRICT
NINE HUNDRED BROAD CIRCLE MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DIS SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C TWO
COUNCIL MEMBER JEWISH.
WE HAD SOME GREAT PUBLIC
COMMENT ON THIS ONE JUST TO
CLARIFY TONIGHT ALL WE ARE
DOING IS APPROVING THE ZONING
AND YOU JUST HEARD WHAT IT WILL
ALLOW.
CTV ALIGNS WITH THE ZONING
OF THE REMAINING DEVELOPMENT
AND THE MALL'S FOOTPRINT.
MOST OF THE LAND AROUND THE
MALL IS ON P FOR PARKING.
WE DEFINITELY WANT TO PUT
HOUSING ON PARKING LOTS.
THAT'S MY REVERSE.
JONI MITCHELL EVEN IF IT ISN'T
QUITE THAT.
SO THIS SHOULD BE A HAPPY
ZONING VOTE.
WE WILL SEE THE ASSOCIATED SIDE
PLAN ON SECOND READING AND I
HAVE ASKED PLANNING STAFF AND I
HAVE INFORMED ME THAT THEY HAVE
ASKED THE DEVELOPER TO CONFIRM
WHETHER OR NOT THE BUILDING
WILL BE ELECTRIFIED SO THAT
THIS PROVISION CAN BE INCLUDED
IN THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
THAT WILL ACCOMPANY THE SITE
PLANIT CITY COUNCIL IN
DECEMBER.
WE DO NOT YET KNOW WHETHER THEY
CAN CONFIRM THAT AND I
UNDERSTAND THE CONCERNS THAT
HAVE BEEN RAISED ABOUT DTD
EITHER INABILITY OR
UNWILLINGNESS TO PROVIDE
CAPACITY AND WE CAN TRY TO
INVESTIGATE THOSE ISSUES AS
BEST WE CAN FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL.
BRACKMAN THE AWARD FOR PROJECT
I JUST WANTED TO SAY HAVEN'T
HEARD FROM A SINGLE PERSON WHO
DOESN'T THINK IT'S NOT A GOOD
IDEA TO BUILD HOUSING ON AN
EMPTY PARKING LOT AND ABANDONED
SEARS BUILDING.
SO I'M EXCITED TO SEE THIS MOVE
FORWARD WITH THE GROCERY STORE
AND TO WELCOME NEW RESIDENTS TO
CITY IN THE WORD FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IT'S
APPROVED C THREE AND ARDEN'S TO
AMEND SECTIONS FIVE ONE SEVEN
FOUR AND FIVE ONE EIGHT SIX
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
THE CODE OF THE CITY THEN ARBER
PREMIUMS D1 D2 FLOOR AREA RATIO
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C THREE
GETTING THERE IN COUNCIL AND
BRETT LEONARD I'M THE PLANNING
MANAGER.
THERE IS A SERIES OF QUESTIONS
THAT WERE ASKED THAT I'D LIKE
TO ADDRESS FOR THIS
INTRODUCTION.
THE FIRST QUESTION WHY HAVEN'T
THEY FHA PREMIUMS WORKED TO
CREATE AFFORDABLE UNITS FROM
2009 TO TWENTY NINETEEN HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT WAS REALIZED
DOWNTOWN SOLELY BY THE USE
OF THE RESIDENTIAL PREMIUM
PROJECT DURING THIS TIME HAD
ENOUGH FINANCIAL VIABILITY
WITHOUT THE REQUIREMENT TO
EXCEED THE SEVEN HUNDRED
PERCENT FOR AREA RATIO FOR MANY
OF THOSE PROJECTS AND WHICH
WOULD REQUIRE THE PROVISION
OF AFFORDABLE HOMES FROM TWENTY
EIGHTEEN ON SEVERAL FACTORS
SUCH AS COVID INCREASE
CONSTRUCTION COSTS AND THE
REQUIREMENT TO INCORPORATE A
PORTION PEOPLE ASIDE PLEASE
KEEP YOURSELF BELOW MR.
LEONARD.
THANK YOU.
NO PROBLEM FROM TWENTY NINETEEN
NINE FACTORS SUCH AS COVID
INCREASE CONSTRUCTION COSTS AND
THE REQUIREMENTS TO INCORPORATE
A PORTION OF THE AFFORDABLE
UNITS INTO EACH DEVELOPMENT
LIKELY HAVE ALL CONTRIBUTED TO
THE CURRENT PREMIUM REGULATIONS
NOT RESULTING IN AFFORDABLE
HOMES.
THE SECOND QUESTION DID STAFF
PLANNING OUR CONSULTANTS LOOKED
AT THE POSSIBILITY OF PAYMENT
IN LIEU TO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND RATHER THAN
DEVELOPER BUILDING UNITS
THEMSELVES.
YES, THIS WAS CONSIDERED SOME
OF THE RELATED FACTORS THAT
WERE DISCUSSED AROUND THIS
ISSUE INCLUDE HOW SUCH A
REQUIREMENT WOULD MAKE
DEVELOPMENT MORE COSTLY OR
DIFFICULT IN AN AREA WHERE NEW
HOUSING IS APPROPRIATE AND
DESIRED.
THE CITY HAS MADE OTHER
COMMITMENTS TO THE PROVISION
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING ON CITY
OWNED SITES IN AND AROUND THE
DOWNTOWN.
THE APPROVAL OF THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING MILLAGE SINCE THE
ADOPTION THE TWENTY NINETEEN
PREMIUM'S APPLIES TO ALL
PROPERTY IN THE CITY INCLUDING
ANY NEW DEVELOPMENT IN THE
DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS AND CONCERNS
ABOUT A SOLE PAYMENT MODEL
WHICH COULD APPEAR TO LINK A
FINANCIAL PAYMENT IN EXCHANGE
FOR A DIFFERENT SET
OF REGULATIONS TO APPLY TO
PROJECTS IN THE DOWNTOWN.
THE LAST QUESTION DO WE EXPECT
THE HIGH PREMIUM TO RESULT IN
AFFORDABLE UNITS?
WHY OR WHY NOT?
THIS IS DIFFICULT TO PREDICT.
I WANT TO BE HONEST THE CITY
HAS EXPERIENCED MANY PROJECTS
THAT HAVE BEEN RESTRICTED BY
THE HEIGHT LIMITS IN ADDITION
TO THE FAIR LIMITS OVER THE
HISTORY OF PREMIUMS AND THE
DOWNTOWN TO THE EXTENT THAT
INCREASED HEIGHT WILL HELP TO
OVERCOME OTHER ECONOMIC
CHALLENGES TO PROJECTS, THEN
THE PROVISION WOULD LIKELY BE
UTILIZED.
THE EXISTING LANGUAGE WILL ALSO
ENABLE THE CITY TO JUST THESE
REQUIREMENTS IN THE FUTURE IF
DEEMED TOO DIFFICULT TO ACHIEVE
OR IF WE EXPERIENCE SOME
IMBALANCE IN THE TYPE
OF PREMIUMS THAT ARE SOUGHT
BETWEEN SUSTAINABILITY OR
AFFORDABILITY.
THANK YOU.
DISCUSSION OF C THREE TOWNSMEN
BRITISH.
SO JUST FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO
ARE NOT ENTIRELY CLEAR ON WHAT
WE ARE DOING HERE, WHAT WE ARE
VOTING ON HERE, THE PROPOSAL IS
TO ELIMINATE FLOOR AREA RATIO
PREMIUMS AND FLOOR AREA RATIO
RESTRICTIONS IN DOWNTOWN SO
THAT DEVELOPMENT IN THE CITY'S
DOWNTOWN ZONING DISTRICTS D1
AND D2 WILL BE REGULATED SOLELY
BY HEIGHT AND THAT IN D ONE
MEANS ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY TO
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY FEET IN
D TWO IT MEANS MOSTLY SIXTY
FEET BUT ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
IN THE MAIN STREET CHARACTER
DISTRICT AND IN ADDITION TO THE
FACTORS THAT MR. LANE LYNETTE
JUST MENTIONED AN EXTENSIVE
PUBLIC OUTREACH PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT EFFORT SUGGESTED
THAT THE FLOOR AREA RATIO
REGULATIONS WERE CUMBERSOME.
THEY ARE ALSO UNUSUAL.
IT IS NOT USUAL TO REGULATE
BOTH BY FLOOR AREA RATIO AND
HEIGHT.
SO AROUND THE COUNTRY THAT IS
ODD.
SO IT IS HOPED THAT THE
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE
PREMIUMS WHICH ESSENTIALLY DO
NOT AMEND THEM THEY REMOVE THEM
WILL MAKE THE PROCESS FOR
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT MORE
PREDICTABLE, EFFICIENT AND
TRANSPARENT.
THIS IS IN NO WAY A RETREAT
FROM OUR COMMITMENT TO
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
IN FACT NO AFFORDABLE UNITS
HAVE RESULTED FROM THE TWENTY
NINETEEN PREMIUMS REVISION AND
IN ADDITION IT'S WORTH
MENTIONING THAT BUILDING MACING
STANDARDS AND FRONT SET BACK
STANDARDS IN THE DOWNTOWN
CHARACTER OVERLAY DISTRICTS
WILL REMAIN FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MIRACLEMAN I'M HOPING
THAT I CAN ASK A CLARIFYING
QUESTION OF STAFF AND I
ACTUALLY ASKED THE HEAD OF THE
MEETING SORRY I THINK IT GOT
LOST BUT I NOTICED IN THE STAFF
REPORT IT SAID SORRY IF I
MISSED.
THERE'S EXPECTED TO BE FEWER
BUILDINGS WITH ONSITE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS WERE
PROVIDING PAYMENTS
.
YOU SAID THAT SOMEWHERE IN THE
REPORT BUT THEN IN THE BUT MY
UNDERSTANDING IS WE'VE HAD ZERO
BUILT SINCE TWENTY NINETEEN SO
HOW CAN WE HAVE LESS THAN ZERO.
THAT WAS A STATEMENT COLLECTIVE
OVER THE LIFE THE PREMIUMS
SINCE TWO THOUSAND NINE NINE
THE PREMIUMS HAVE BEEN USED TO
INCENTIVIZE BOTH HOUSING AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING LARGELY FROM
TWO THOUSAND NINE AS REFERENCE
TO TWENTY NINETEEN.
THERE WERE NO HOUSING.
THERE WERE A HANDFUL
OF PROJECTS THAT ACTUALLY DID
INCLUDE SOME AFFORDABLE UNITS
JUST AS THE REGULATIONS WERE
CHANGING BUT GENERALLY
COLLECTIVELY BY THE ELIMINATION
OF THE ENTIRETY OF THE PREMIUMS
FRAMEWORK IN THE ORDINANCE THAT
WAS THE BASIS FOR THAT
LANGUAGE.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POST IT IS
APPROVED SEE FOR AN ORDINANCE
TO AMEND SECTIONS FIVE TWO AND
FIVE ONE SEVEN OR CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY BANABA MOVE BY
SECOND BY COUNCILOR CORNELL
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C FOR AND
BRITISH.
SO I DO WANT TO AGAIN DO A
LITTLE CLARIFYING AND AGAIN WE
ARE JUST ON FIRST READING SO
THINGS WILL BE MORE MOMENTOUS
WHEN IT COMES BACK BUT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION DID NOT
RECOMMEND THE PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS TO ONE BUT IN FACT
FIVE MEMBERS SUPPORTED THE
AMENDMENTS AND THREE POST AND
SO THERE IS A RULE THAT YOU
NEED SIX FOR APPROVAL AND
THAT'S WHY A FIVE THREE VOTE
ENDS UP AS A DENIAL.
NOW THERE IS BROAD AGREEMENT ON
THE PLANNING COMMISSION ABOUT
THE VALUE OF AND NEED TO
PROVIDE CAPACIOUS SIDEWALKS AND
AMENITIES LIKE STREET TREES,
BUS SHELTERS AND BIKE RACKS ON
CORRIDORS WHERE PLANNING
COMMISSION DISAGREED WAS
WHETHER THIS SPACE OUGHT TO BE
CREATED BY RECONFIGURING
EXISTING MATERIALS.
THAT IS THE SAME ROAD DIETZE
MOVING CURBS OR BY REQUIRING
PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNERS TO SET
BACK PERMANENT STRUCTURES
ASKING PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNERS
TO SET BACK PERMANENT
STRUCTURES DOES NOT GIVE THE
CITY THE RIGHT TO USE THAT
LAND.
IN MOST CASES IT WOULD STILL
HAVE TO BE ACQUIRED.
HOWEVER, IF SOMETHING IS BUILT
IN THAT LAND IT CANNOT BE
ACQUIRED.
THERE SIMPLY IS NO OPTION.
SO I WANT TO EMPHASIZE THAT
WHAT I FIND IN GENIUS ABOUT
STAFF'S RECOMMENDATION HERE IS
THAT INSTEAD OF MEASURING
SETBACKS FROM THE PROPERTY LINE
WHICH MEANS THAT THEY CAN THEY
CAN BE JAGGED BECAUSE PROPERTY
LINES VARY IN THEIR DISTANCE
FROM THE STREET.
THIS AMENDMENT PROPOSES TO
MEASURE SETBACKS FROM THE BACK
OF THE CURB AND SO THIS WOULD
GIVE US A UNIFORM STREET FACE
OR I THINK THAT'S THE RIGHT
UNIFORM LINE THINGS AND IT ALSO
PEOPLE ARE VERY WORRIED THAT
THAT ONCE YOU USE THE WORD
SETBACK THERE'S A CONCERN THAT
WERE FALLING BACK INTO A
SUBURBAN MODEL OF ARCHITECTURE
WHERE WE HAVE GIANT OPEN SPACES
IN FRONT OF BUILDINGS FILLED
WITH PARKING LOTS AND ALL
OF THAT THAT WE NONE OF WHICH
WE WANT THIS DOES NOT DO THAT.
YOU ALL SAW THAT THERE IS A
MINIMUM 18 FOOT SETBACK AND A
MAXIMUM TWENTY EIGHT FOOT
SETBACK IN SOME CASES THIS
WOULD REQUIRE EXISTING
BUILDINGS THAT ARE ON THE
CORRIDOR IF THEY WERE
SIGNIFICANTLY RENOVATED TO MOVE
FORWARD BECAUSE THERE THEY ARE
CURRENTLY SET BACK TOO FAR
BECAUSE THEY'RE BEING SET BACK
FROM THEIR PROPERTY LINE.
SO I REGARD THIS AS A REALLY
INGENIOUS WAY TO ANSWER OUR
CONCERNS TO BE ABLE TO FOSTER
WALKABILITY AND BIKE ABILITY
ALONG THESE CORRIDORS, MANY
OF WHICH ARE MULTI LANE
CORRIDORS WHICH ARE TERRIBLY
UNCOMFORTABLE FOR PEDESTRIANS
AND BICYCLISTS AS WE HEARD
WITHOUT ENDORSING A COUNCIL
MEMBER.
YES, THAT'S IT.
CERVARIX YEAH.
THANKS.
AND I ALSO TOO WOULD LIKE TO
THINK PLANNING STAFF THERE WAS
A REALLY COMPREHENSIVE REPORT
IF YOU'VE HAD HAVEN'T HAD A
CHANCE TO TO LOOK AT THAT.
I THINK IT'S REALLY GREAT TO TO
REVIEW BEFORE IT GETS THIS GETS
THE SECOND READING.
THERE'S A LOT OF QUESTIONS THAT
ARE ANSWERED WITHIN IT BUT
ESSENTIALLY ON OUR THIS IS AN
AMENDMENT AIMED AT ADDRESSING
THE FACT THAT WE NEED TO LOOK
TO THE FUTURE WHEN WE'RE
DEVELOPING OUR TRANSIT
CORRIDORS AND WE WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT IN THE FUTURE THAT WE
HAVE THE SPACE TO REALIZE THESE
AS ONE REALLY VIBRANT TRANSIT
CORRIDORS WHERE WE HAVE
PROTECTED SPACE FOR TRANSIT AND
ALSO THAT WE HAVE GOOD
PEDESTRIAN FACILITIES,
BICYCLING FACILITIES, A KALEEN
FOR FOR AUTOMOBILES IS LIKELY A
PART OF THE FUTURE AS WELL AND
ALL OF THIS TAKES SPACE AND SO
SINCE WE DON'T HAVE RIGHT
OF WAY PLANS IN THE CITY AT
WHERE WE KNOW EXACTLY WHAT THAT
EASEMENT WOULD LOOK LIKE, THIS
IS A REALLY ELEGANT SOLUTION AS
A COUNCIL MEMBER SUGGESTED
WHERE WE CAN MEASURE FROM THE
BACK OF THE CURB WHERE WE MAKE
SURE THAT WE ARE ACTUALLY
PROTECTING SPACE FOR FOR THOSE
NEEDS AS WE GO FORWARD AS ITS
PLANNING STAFF HAS MENTIONED
AND SOME OF THE AGENDA RESPONSE
QUESTIONS, IT IS NOT
ANTICIPATED THAT WE HAVE THAT
SPACE BETWEEN THE CURB THOUGH
OBVIOUSLY THERE'S A FUTURE ITEM
ON THE AGENDA THAT WHERE WE GET
THAT WE'RE GOING TO BE TRYING
TO MOVE FORWARD ROAD ROAD DIETS
AND ROAD RECONFIGURATIONS AS
WELL THIS EVENING.
BUT THIS ALLOWS US TO THINK
BEYOND THE CURB SPACE AND AS
COUNCIL MEMBER MENTIONED IN
SOME CASES IN THIS CAME OUT
OF THE STADIUM CORRIDOR WHERE
WE HAVE ONLY SEVEN FEET FROM
THE CURB TO THE BACK OF THE
SIDEWALK.
THAT'S NOT ENOUGH SPACE FOR A
TRANSIT SHELTER A ADEQUATELY
SIZED SIDEWALK FOR INCREASED
DENSITY FOR ALL THE THINGS THAT
WE NEED.
BUT IN OTHER SPACES, PLACES IN
THE CITY LIKE STATE STREET
WHERE WE HAVE THESE IMMENSE SET
BACKS, WHAT IT'S ACTUALLY GOING
TO BE MEETING MINUTES THAT
WE'RE BRINGING BUILDINGS CLOSER
TO THE TO THE STREET THINGS.
SO THIS IS A I THINK A GREAT
SOLUTION WHERE WE ARE MOVING
AWAY FROM OUR SUBURBAN DESIGN
BUT ALSO THINKING TOWARDS THE
FUTURE IN TERMS OF PROTECTING
THAT SPACE THAT WE NEED FOR THE
DISCUSSION OR FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED DC ONE
RESOLUTION TO A POINT AND AGAIN
DANGER TO THE HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD BY
COUNCILOR WATSON SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA
DISCUSSION OF DC ONE ON FAVOR
POSED IT'S PROVED TO RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE A SUBDISCIPLINE
AGREEMENT WITH I E.G.
CONSULTANTS CORP FOR TECHNICAL
LEADERSHIP IN THE BRYANT
DISTRICT GEOTHERMAL PROJECT IS
AWARDED BY THE US DEPARTMENT
OF ENERGY AND THE AMOUNT OF TWO
HUNDRED AND FORTY SIX THOUSAND
TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS
MOVED BY COUNCILOR JANELLE
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
TO I'VE ALREADY WAX POETIC
ABOUT THE DEPARTMENT OF ISAIS
RECEIPT OF THIS DEPARTMENT
OF ENERGY PLANNING GRANT THEIR
GREAT WORK FOR THEMSELVES AND
MOST MOST CRUCIALLY THEIR GREAT
WORK WITH WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD
IN AND OTHER GROUPS THAT ARE
COLLABORATING WITH US IN AN
EFFORT TO CREATE A OUR FIRST
CARBON NEUTRAL NEIGHBORHOOD AND
PERHAPS THE NATION'S FIRST LOW
LOW INCOME CARBON NEUTRAL
NEIGHBORHOOD.
TWO HUNDRED AND FORTY TWO HOMES
LINKED BY A GEOTHERMAL DISTRICT
AND ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AND
MUNICIPAL MAINTENANCE FACILITY
AND A MENTAL HEALTH CENTER AND
A NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER.
THESE ARE THIS IS THE PROMISE
OF THIS THIS PLANNING GRANT AND
I'M JUST SO EXCITED ABOUT IT
MOVING FORWARD TODAY COUNCIL
MEMBER OF DENHA I FEEL LIKE I
SHOULD SAY SOMETHING AS A
RESIDENT OF THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
BUT I FEEL LIKE I'VE TALKED
ABOUT IT QUITE A BIT BEFORE AS
WELL.
I'M JUST REALLY EXCITED ABOUT
THIS.
I THINK FIRST OF ALL THE WORK
OF LSI AND OUR PARTNERS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND IN THE
COMMUNITY IS JUST REALLY
INCREDIBLE.
I THINK THIS IS ANOTHER GREAT
STEP TOWARDS ACHIEVING OUR
GOALS AND AS THE MAYOR NOTED,
ACHIEVING OUR FIRST
CARBON NEUTRAL NEIGHBORHOOD BUT
I THINK IS REALLY MOST EXCITING
ABOUT THIS IS THE WAY THAT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD HAS REALLY WRAPPED
THEIR ARMS AROUND THIS AND THE
EXCITEMENT THAT YOU CAN FEEL
AROUND SOME OF THIS WORK IN THE
COMMUNITY WITH FOLKS SHOWING UP
AT AT EVENTS THAT ARE HOSTED BY
ICI AND THE COMMUNITY CENTER
PARTICIPATING IN NEIGHBORHOOD
PROJECTS TO SUPPORT ONE ANOTHER
AND THEN ALSO JUST SHARING
STORIES ABOUT THE IMPACTS THAT
THIS WORK IS ALREADY HAVING IN
THE COMMUNITY TO REDUCE COSTS
FOR FOLKS IN LOW INCOME
SITUATIONS BUT ALSO JUST TO
IMPROVE THE EFFICIENCY AND AND
FRANKLY SOMETIMES SAVING THE
LIVES OF PEOPLE AS AS WE'RE
GOING THROUGH AND DOING ENERGY
ASSESSMENTS AND RECOGNIZING
THAT GAS STOVES ARE LEAKING AND
POTENTIALLY KILLING PEOPLE.
AND SO THIS WORK THAT I SAY IS
DOING HOLISTICALLY IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IS JUST REALLY
INCREDIBLE LIFE SAVING WORK AND
THIS WILL CONTINUE TO
COMPLEMENT THAT.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
ALVERA POSED.
IT IS APPROVED DC THREE
RESOLUTION TO PERMANENTLY
RELOCATE PRECINCT TO TWENTY
FROM THE FIRST UNITED METHODIST
CHURCH AT ONE ONE ONE ZERO ZERO
ONE GREEN ROAD TO KING
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AT THIRTY
EIGHT HUNDRED WALDEN WOULD NAME
BEGINNING WITH THE TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR PRESIDENTIAL
PRIMARY MOVE BY COUNCILOR
WATSON SECOND BY COUNCILOR DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC THREE
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON THANKS AS
ALWAYS TO THE CITY CLERK'S
OFFICE FOR BEING ON TOP
OF THINGS.
THEY'VE BEEN NOTIFIED THAT
FIRST UNITED METHODIST CHURCH
ON GREEN ROAD WILL NO LONGER BE
ABLE TO SERVE AS A POLLING
PLACE DUE TO THEIR
CONSOLIDATION OF SERVICES INTO
OTHER EXISTING BUILDINGS.
BUT THANKS THANK YOU TO MRS
RUGGERI AND TO AAPS FOR BEING
WILLING TO WILLING TO MOVE THE
POLLING PLACE TO KINGS SCHOOL.
TWO PRECINCTS WILL NOW BE
LOCATED AT KINGS SCHOOL TO
NINETEEN AND TO TWENTY BUT WE
EXPECT THIS NOT TO CAUSE ANY
ADDITIONAL CHALLENGES DUE TO
THE FACT THAT MANY VOTERS IN
THESE TWO PRECINCTS CHOOSE TO
VOTE EARLY BY MAIL AND NOW HAVE
THE OPTION TO DO EARLY
IN-PERSON VOTING BEFORE
ELECTION DAY.
SO WE EXPECT A MUCH LIGHTER
TRADITIONAL ELECTION DAY
POLLING PLACE TURNOUT SCHOOL IS
THE PERFECT LOCATION BECAUSE
IT'S ACCESSIBLE AND I GUESS TO
PUT IT QUITE SIMPLY EVERYBODY
KNOWS WHERE IT IS AND IT'S
WALKING DISTANCE TO TO ALMOST
EVERYWHERE TO EVERYWHERE IN THE
PRECINCT THE THE THE CITY WILL
GET WORD OUT THROUGH MULTIPLE
CHANNELS INCLUDING ISSUING NEW
PERMANENT ID CARDS TO VOTERS.
SO IF YOU VOTED AT KING YOU
STILL DO AND IF YOU VOTED AT
GREEN AT THE GREEN ROAD FIRST
UNITED METHODIST CHURCH YOU
WILL VOTE AT KING'S SCHOOL.
>> SO THANKS AGAIN.
THIS IS ACTUALLY MY POLLING
PLACE WHERE I'VE BEEN AN
OBSERVER WHERE HUNDREDS
OF NEIGHBORS VOTE AHEAD OF ME.
THEY'RE USUALLY FIRST IN LINE.
WE ARE VERY EAGER VOTERS AT
THIS POINT.
I THINK IT'LL BE A PRETTY EASY
TRANSITION.
KING ELEMENTARY AND NOW WITH
THE ADDITIONAL ROAD
IMPROVEMENTS TO GET TO KING
ELEMENTARY, I'D LOVE I'D LOVE
TO SEE WHEN FAMILIES COME AND
BRING THEIR KIDS TO VOTE.
SO I'M REALLY EAGER FOR THIS
TRANSITION AND I THINK COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON FOR PUTTING THIS
RESOLUTION FORWARD AND WORKING
WITH OUR CITY CLERK
COULD YOU
MR TONY MR HARRIS IS AVAILABLE
TO DO THE INTRODUCTION TO
RESPOND TO LATE BREAKING
QUESTIONS MR HASSO MR
HUTCHINSON ARE BOTH JOINING US
ON ZOOME
GOOD EVENING ER IN
COUNCIL AM I COMING THROUGH FOR
YOU.
YOU BET.
VERY GOOD.
WE DID RECEIVE THREE QUESTIONS
THAT I WANTED TO ADDRESS ON THE
FRONT END IF I MAY.
THE FIRST QUESTION WAS WITH
SOME RECENT RECONFIGURATIONS
REMOVE LANES AT MAJOR
INTERSECTIONS SUCH AS ACAD
STATE WILLIAM WE'VE EXPERIENCED
CONSIDERABLE INCREASES IN
TRAFFIC CONGESTION AFTER ROAD
RECONFIGURATION.
WHAT IS STEPS PROCESS FOR
EVALUATING OUTCOMES AND WHAT IS
THE PROCESS FOR MAKING
ADJUSTMENTS WHEN NECESSARY TO
RECTIFY UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES
?
SO WE LOOK AT THINGS THROUGH
THE LENS OF THE ZERO
CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN AND THE
MOVING TOGETHER TOWARDS VISION
ZERO TRANSPORTATION PLAN WHICH
PRETTY MUCH FOCUSES ON TWO KEY
PRINCIPLES THOSE BEING ZERO
FATALITIES AND ZERO EMISSIONS
AS SUCH SAFETY AND ACTIVE FORMS
OF TRANSPORTATION SUCH AS
WALKING AND BIKING AND TAKING
THE BUS REALLY GUIDE OUR WORK
MORE SO THAN VEHICULAR
CONGESTION.
HOWEVER, I WILL NOTE THAT
STANDARD ROAD DIETS AND ROAD
RECONFIGURATION ANALYSIS OFTEN
INCLUDE THINGS SUCH AS TRAFFIC
VOLUMES, PEAK HOUR DEMAND SPEED
IMPACTS TO TRANSIT IMPACTS TO
BIKE TRAFFIC PARKING USAGE
EFFECT ON PARALLEL ROUTES, ROAD
WITH RAIL ROAD CROSSINGS,
INTERSECTION CONFLICTS AND
CRASH HISTORY.
BUT I'LL NOTE A LOT OF THE
VEHICULAR IMPACTS ARE LARGELY
LOOKED AT THROUGH THE LINES
OF SAFETY AND TO A LESSER
EXTENT CONGESTION AND SO AND
THE LAST THING I WANTED TO
MENTION IN THE SPACE IS THAT WE
REGULARLY REGULARLY ITERATE AND
TWEAK THINGS AFTER WE
CONFIGURATION.
THIS MAY MEAN SIGNAL TIMING
ADJUSTMENTS AND ADDITIONAL
SIGNAGE OR PAVEMENT MARKINGS.
THIS IS DONE OPTIMALLY WHEN
CONSULTING WITH STAKEHOLDERS ON
EXPERIENCE AND THEN WE OFTEN
ALSO ALLOW SOME TIME TO
TRANSPIRE BEFORE WE MAKE
SIGNIFICANT CHANGES BECAUSE A
LOT OF TIMES WHEN THERE ARE
CHANGES TO CONFIGURATIONS
OF ROADWAYS WE LIKE TO ALLOW
TRAFFIC TO NORMALIZE BEFORE WE
PURSUE ANY SIGNIFICANT CHANGES
BEYOND WHAT WAS DONE INITIALLY.
>> THE SECOND QUESTION IS PRE
COVID WE HAD EIGHTY THOUSAND
COMMUTERS COMING INTO AND
LEAVING IN ARBOR EVERY DAY
WHILE TRAFFIC SEEMS TO BE
RETURNING TO SIMILAR LEVELS.
HAVE WE DONE A NEW STUDY AND OR
ARE PLANS TO DO A NEW STUDY TO
UNDERSTAND THE TRAFFIC VOLUME
OF OUR ROADWAYS?
THE QUESTION IS IN FACT PRETTY
CONSISTENT WITH OUR
UNDERSTANDING AND THE DATA
WE'RE TRACKING SUGGESTS THAT
VEHICULAR TRAFFIC VOLUMES HAVE
COME BACK TO ROUGHLY THREE
LEVELS.
THERE'S SOME CHANGE
CHARACTERISTICS ESPECIALLY TO
THE AFTERNOON RUSH OR WHAT WE
CALL THE PEAK.
HOWEVER, NOTING US WE DON'T
HAVE ANY PLANS TO CONDUCT A NEW
STUDY OF OUR OWN.
ONE THING THAT I CAN NOTE THAT
WE OFTEN LOOK TO AND CAN RELY
UPON IS THE SOUTHEAST MICHIGAN
COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS AND THE
WASHTENAW AREA TRANSPORTATION
STUDY BOTH DEVELOP REGIONAL
LONG RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLANS
AND THOSE EFFORTS ARE CURRENTLY
UNDERWAY AND THIS WORK INCLUDES
DEVELOPMENT OF COMPLICATED
REGIONAL TRAVEL MAN MODELS
WHICH SHOW CURRENT AND
PROJECTED TRAVEL PATTERNS
INCLUDING TO FROM AND AROUND
ANN ARBOR SO WE CAN QUERY THOSE
ORGANIZATIONS AND SEE IF THERE
ARE ANY CHANGES TO THE BASELINE
EXISTING CONDITION OR ANY
CHANGES TO FUTURE CONDITIONS ON
THE THIRD AND FINAL QUESTION WE
GOT WAS BY EXPEDITING THESE
ROAD RECONFIGURATIONS, DO WE
HAVE CONFIDENCE THAT OTHER
FACTORS IN OUR HOLISTIC
TRANSPORTATION PLAN SUCH AS
IMPROVED TRANSIT WALKING AND
CYCLING INFRASTRUCTURE FOR
EXAMPLE ARE KEEPING UP WITH THE
SAME PACE ENSURING THAT WE ARE
CREATING OTHER SAFE ALTERNATIVE
TRANSPORTATION OPTIONS FOR
RESIDENTS AND THIS ACTUALLY
ROAD RECONFIGURATIONS ROTATES
OFTEN AFFORD US THESE
OPPORTUNITIES BECAUSE WE CAN
RECONFIGURE THEIR LANES
OF TRAVEL.
IT GIVES US AN OPPORTUNITY TO
IMPROVE FACILITIES FOR PEOPLE
WHO TAKE THE BUS, WHO WALK AND
OR RIDE A BIKE AND WE CAN
CREATE SAFE ENVIRONMENTS FOR
THOSE MODES OF TRAVEL.
ONE THING TO NOTE HERE THOUGH
IS THAT IT DOES TAKE TIME FOR
PEOPLE TO SHIFT THEIR TRAVEL
PATTERNS OVER TO THESE OTHER
FORMS OF TRANSPORTATION AND
THIS IS ESPECIALLY TRUE IF
THERE ARE GAPS IN THE NETWORK
THAT MAYBE KIND OF HAVE MISSING
LINKS OR DON'T SERVE PEOPLE
WELL WHO WANT TO WALK MICROTECH
TRANSIT BUT WITH EVERY PROJECT
WE MAKE THOSE CHOICES MORE
ATTRACTIVE AND POSSIBLE AND
THIS IS SUBSTANTIATED IN THE
DATA THAT JUST RELEASED DATA
SHOWING THAT THE DOWNTOWN
BIKEWAYS ARE ATTRACTING ROUGHLY
TEN THOUSAND PEOPLE PER WEEK.
THIS IS COMBINED FOR ALL THE
BIKE FACILITIES DOWNTOWN AND
THIS IS CONSISTENT WITH DATA
COLLECTED BY DR PHENG WHO ALSO
IS IN REGULAR USE OF THE
DOWNTOWN BICYCLE
INFRASTRUCTURE.
SO THIS GOES TO SHOW THAT IF
YOU BUILD IT THEY WILL COME AND
THOSE ARE THE INTRODUCTORY
COMMENTS IN RESPONSE TO THE
QUESTIONS WE RECEIVE.
THANK YOU.
DISCUSSION OF DC FOR COUNCILOR
AKMAN.
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO THANK EVERYBODY WHO
EMAILED COUNCIL TODAY.
WE GOT REAMS OF EMAILS, PEOPLE
THAT SPOKE OF PUBLIC COMMENT
AND I JUST REALLY APPRECIATE
HEARING THE PERSONAL STORIES
ABOUT WHAT IT'S LIKE TO TRY TO
GET AROUND IN CERTAIN AREAS
OF OUR CITY.
OK, SO THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
KILLED OR SERIOUSLY INJURED IN
CRASHES ON OUR ROADS IN TWENTY
TWENTY TWO WAS TWENTY TWO
PEOPLE.
OUR GOAL IS ZERO BY TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE WE'RE DOING A LOT
BETTER THAN THE REST OF THE
STATE I THINK IN LARGE PART
BECAUSE OF THE MEASURES THAT WE
HAVE STARTED PUTTING IN FOR THE
LAST SEVERAL YEARS.
BUT WHEN IT COMES TO TRAFFIC
VIOLENCE WE STILL HAVE A WAY TO
GO.
SO THIS RESOLUTION IS FIRST AND
FOREMOST ABOUT SAFETY CREATING
SAFE ENVIRONMENTS FOR ALL OF US
WHETHER WE'RE DRIVING, BIKING,
WALKING OR TAKING THE BUS TO
GET AROUND.
AND I SHOULD NOTE THAT THOSE
STATISTICS THAT I JUST GAVE
INCLUDE DRIVERS SO THIS REALLY
IS ABOUT SAFETY FOR ALL ROAD
USERS.
WE KNOW THAT WIDE ROADS
ENCOURAGE FASTER DRIVING
SPEEDS.
THEY'RE INHERENTLY MORE
DANGEROUS FOR ALL ROAD USERS.
IN FACT, THE FEDERAL HIGHWAY
ADMINISTRATION WHICH ISN'T
EXACTLY A BASTION OF RADICAL
THINKING ON ROADS POINTS TO THE
SAFETY BENEFITS OF LANE
REDUCTIONS INCLUDING REDUCING
CRASHES FROM NINETEEN TO FORTY
SEVEN PERCENT AND STUDY AFTER
STUDY DEMONSTRATES THIS WE HAVE
LOCAL DATA AS WELL.
SO IN ANN ARBOR STREETS WITH
FOUR OR MORE FOUR OR MORE LANES
ACCOUNTS FOR JUST SEVEN PERCENT
OF THE STREETS IN OUR CITY
SEVEN PERCENT BUT ACCOUNTS FOR
40 PERCENT OF THE SEVERE
CRASHES.
SO IT'S PRETTY NOTABLE WE KNOW
THAT LANE REDUCTIONS ON GREEN
ROAD, JACKSON AVENUE, PACARD
PLANT PLANT LED TO
SIGNIFICANTLY FEWER CRASHES
THAT DATA CAN BE ACCESSED
ONLINE SOUTH MAIN STREET.
AS SOMEONE NOTED EARLIER, WE'VE
SEEN A NOTICEABLE CHANGE IN
SPEEDING AND THAT MATTERS
BECAUSE SPEEDING LEADS TO
SEVERE INJURY AND DEATH.
YOU THESE ROADS, THESE MULTI
LANE ROADS THERE BY OUR SCHOOLS
THERE BETWEEN NEIGHBORHOODS AND
AMENITIES THERE ARE THINGS THAT
ARE CONNECTORS IN OUR CITY AND
WE HEARD SEVERAL TIMES HOW
WE'RE CREATING GAPS IN THIS
NETWORK BY HAVING ROADS THAT
PEOPLE DON'T FEEL SAFE USING
ANYTHING ELSE BUT A CAR AND
THAT'S UNFORTUNATE ESPECIALLY
WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT PEOPLE
THAT DON'T HAVE A CHOICE LIKE
PEOPLE WHO CAN'T YOU KNOW, ARE
NOT OLD ENOUGH TO GET A
DRIVER'S LICENSE JUST FOR ONE
EXAMPLE.
SO LIKE I SAID, THIS IS
FUNDAMENTALLY ABOUT
PRIORITIZING THE VALUE
OF PROTECTING PEOPLE FROM
SERIOUS INJURY BY TAKING A
SERIOUS LOOK AT ALL OF THESE
ROADS AND EVALUATING
OPPORTUNITIES FOR ROAD
CONFIGURATIONS, WHETHER THAT'S
DEDICATING THE LANES TO BUSSES,
BIKES OR OTHER THINGS THAT
SUPPORT SAFE ALTERNATIVE MODES
OF TRANSPORTATION.
THIS EVALUATION WILL REQUIRE
RESOURCES WHICH IS WHY WE'RE
DIRECTING THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO DEVELOP A PLAN
FOR EVALUATION OF ALL OF THE
ROADS BY TWENTY THIRTY AND TO
PRESENT THAT AS PART OF THE
BUDGET PROCESS.
WE HAVE BOLD GOALS IN OUR
TRANSPORTATION PLAN AND THIS
REQUIRES BIG CHANGES TO OUR
NETWORK AND SO I LOOK FORWARD
TO GETTING MORE SUPPORT FOR
THIS TONIGHT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCILOR
BREEKS THANKS THANKS TO COUNCIL
MEMBER AKMAN FOR ALL OF HER
WORK ON THIS AND ALSO TO STAFF
THAT ENGAGED WITH US A GREAT
DEAL ON IT AND TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION AND THEN ALL THE
FOLKS WHO HAVE SPOKEN THIS
EVENING EITHER IN PERSON OR VIA
VIA EMAIL THERE'S OBVIOUSLY A
STRONG OUTPOURING OF SUPPORT
FOR THIS AND IT'S EVIDENT
EVIDENCE AS WELL WITHIN OUR
RECENT TRANSPORTATION PLAN AND
IN OUR CLIMATE ACTION PLAN THAT
THIS IS THE DIRECTION THAT THE
COMMUNITY IS SAYING THAT WE
NEED TO GO.
BUT THERE ARE A LOT OF PIECES
OF OUR TRANSPORTATION PLAN AND
SO THIS IS ONE AREA THAT WE
KNEW THAT WE NEEDED TO TAKE
FOCUS IN ON AND AND TRY TO
ACCELERATE ONE.
YOU CAN SEE ONE OF THE RESOLVE
CLAUSES HERE IS TO SIMPLY MAKE
SURE THAT WE ARE EVALUATING AS
PART OF OUR ANNUAL RESURFACING
AND RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM AND
INCLUDING OUR CAPITAL PROJECTS
LIST THE OPPORTUNITIES FOR ROAD
RECONFIGURATIONS.
BUT IF WE DO THAT IT IS
UNLIKELY THAT WE WOULD HAVE
GOTTEN TO EVALUATING ACTUALLY
ALL OF OUR MULTILINE ROADS BY
20 30.
SO THE OTHER PART OF THIS THAT
COMES OUR COUNCIL MEMBER
ECKMANN MENTIONED WAS THAT
WE'RE EXPLICITLY ASKING AS PART
OF THE NEXT FISCAL YEAR BUDGET
THAT A PLAN IS PUT FORWARD FOR
US TO EVALUATE ALL THESE
ROADWAYS BECAUSE WE NEED TO
UNDERSTAND WHERE ROAD DIETS ARE
ADVISABLE OR WHERE A ROAD
RECONFIGURATION IS ADVISABLE AS
WE MOVE FORWARD IN REZONING ONE
CORRIDORS LIKE PLYMOUTH AND
WASHTENAW THOSE ARE REALLY GOOD
CANDIDATES FOR DEDICATED
TRANSIT FACILITIES AND SO
RECONFIGURATION THERE IS IS
IMPORTANT TO DEDICATE LANES TO
TRANSIT FACILITIES AND WE NEED
TO UNDERSTAND WHERE THAT IS THE
PRIORITY AND THEN ARE ALSO
INCORPORATING IN INTO THAT
PROCESS SAFE BICYCLE
CONNECTIVITY AND MAKING SURE
THAT WE'RE PARTNERING WITH ATAY
AND THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
THEIR TRANSIT AUTHORITY AS WELL
FOR THESE IMPROVEMENTS AND THEN
WHERE ROAD DIETS ARE IMPORTANT
.
COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN SPOKE TO
ALL OF THE SAFETY BENEFITS
THERE.
WE KNOW THAT THIS IS CRITICAL
FROM A SAFETY PERSPECTIVE AND
AS OTHERS HAVE MENTIONED FROM A
NETWORK PERSPECTIVE THE REALITY
IS IS THAT WE HAVE A FULL CAR
NETWORK RIGHT NOW.
YOU CAN DRIVE ANYWHERE YOU NEED
TO STAY GENERALLY SAFELY IN OUR
CITY.
BUT THAT IS NOT TRUE IF YOU'RE
ON BIKE RIGHT NOW CALCE NO DO
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I WANT TO THANK STAFF AND THE
SPONSORS FOR THEIR HARD WORK ON
THIS AND FOR TALKING ME THROUGH
SOME OF THE ANSWERS ANSWERING
SOME OF THE QUESTIONS THAT I
HAD EARLIER ON.
I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THIS
TONIGHT FOR MANY OF THE REASONS
ALREADY STATED BY MY COLLEAGUES
AND MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WHO
HAVE REACHED OUT.
BUT I DO HAVE A CAUTION OR
MAYBE AN ASK AS WE MOVE FORWARD
WHICH REVOLVES AROUND SOME
OF THE UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES
OF RECENT RECONFIGURATIONS.
I ASKED THE QUESTION ABOUT
STASS PROCESS FOR EVALUATING
OUTCOMES AND MAKING ADJUSTMENTS
NECESSARY AFTER
RECONFIGURATIONS BECAUSE I'M
CONSTANTLY GETTING ASKED
VERSION OF THIS QUESTION BY MY
CONSTITUENTS.
WE ARE NOW A DECENT AMOUNT
OF TIME AWAY FROM THE LEFT TURN
LANE REDUCTIONS AT THE
INTERSECTION OF STATE AND
WILLIAM AND PACKARD HILL AND WE
STILL HAVE SOME NEW PROBLEMS
THAT WERE CREATED THERE THAT
NEED TO BE ADDRESSED AT PACKARD
AND HILL.
IN ADDITION TO THE NOTABLE
IMPACT NOTABLE CONGESTION
IMPACTING MULTIPLE
INTERSECTIONS EVEN WITH THE
ADDITION OF POST BEFORE THE
INTERSECTION WE STILL HAVE CARS
SWERVING INTO BIKE AND
PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS WITHIN THE
INTERSECTION TO GET AROUND
THOSE WAITING TO TURN LEFT AND
I'VE PERSONALLY WITNESSED
SEVERAL NEAR MISSES.
MY CONSTITUENTS ASK ME ARE WE
GOING TO PROHIBIT LEFT TURNS
HERE AND IF NOT WHAT ARE WE
GOING TO DO TO FIX THIS AT
STATE AND WILLIAM WHERE
PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC FAR
OUTWEIGHS VEHICLE TRAFFIC IN
THAT AREA AND WE NEEDED TO MAKE
WE CLEARLY NEEDED TO MAKE
SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS FOR THOSE
USERS.
WE NOW OFTEN HAVE NORTHBOUND
TRAFFIC INCLUDING BUSSES ON
STATE REGULARLY AWAITING FIVE,
SIX OR SEVEN LIGHT CYCLES WITH
TRAFFIC BACKED UP PAST MICHIGAN
UNION BECAUSE OF A SINGLE
VEHICLE IS TURNING LEFT ON TO
WILLIAM IT'S THE ONLY VEHICLE
THAT WILL MAKE IT THROUGH THE
LIGHT.
CAN WE COULD WE IMPLEMENT
SINGLE DIRECTION LIGHT CYCLES
HERE AND IF NOT HOW DO WE FIX
THIS?
I'M ALSO HEARING FROM A LOT
OF MY CONSTITUENTS ABOUT THE
RECENT FLAT ROAD DIET SOME
POSITIVE, SOME NEGATIVE.
BUT THIS IS A RECONFIGURATION I
PROUDLY SUPPORTED AND I'M HAPPY
TO DEFEND IS THE ROAD I USE
ALMOST DAILY AND OUTSIDE
OF RUSH HOUR IN MY EXPERIENCE
TRAFFIC STILL FLOWS REALLY
SMOOTHLY AND IT IS NOW MUCH
SAFER FOR ALL USERS BUT AN
OVERLOOKED CONSEQUENCE THERE
THAT THAT IS OF CONCERN TO ME
IS THAT THE SIGNIFICANT
INCREASE OF NEIGHBORHOOD CUT
THROUGH TRAFFIC IN SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOODS ON BOTH SIDES
OF PLATEAU AND I DO WANT TO
CALL SPECIAL ATTENTION TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD JUST EAST
OF PLATTE BECAUSE THAT ENTIRE
NEIGHBORHOOD IN CLOSE PROXIMITY
TO AN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL NOW HAS
MORE CARS TRAVELING AT FASTER
SPEEDS AND THEY DON'T HAVE ANY
SIDEWALKS AT ALL AND THAT IS A
PROBLEM.
>> SO I BRING ALL THIS UP NOT
TO SAY THAT ANY OF THESE
DECISIONS SHOULDN'T HAVE BEEN
MADE.
THEY WERE THE RIGHT DECISIONS
BECAUSE IN SOME ALL OF THESE
LOCATIONS ARE SAFER.
BUT SINCE WE'VE TAKEN STEPS TO
STREAMLINE NEIGHBORHOOD TRAFFIC
CALMING AND WE HAVE A SIDEWALK
MILEAGE AND WE'RE ACTIVELY
WORKING TO IMPROVE SAFETY
EFFICIENCY FOR ALL USERS AND
BECAUSE WE SHOULD ALL
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT ONE CHANGE CAN
IMPACT OUR ENTIRE NETWORK.
MY QUESTION OR MY ASK AS WE
MOVE FORWARD IS THAT WE DON'T
JUST CONSIDER MULTI LANE ROADS
IN A VACUUM BUT WE TAKE A
HOLISTIC LOOK AT THE IMPACT ON
ALL USERS OF THESE ROADWAYS AND
THE NETWORK OF STREETS
IMMEDIATELY SURROUNDING THEM
BECAUSE I DON'T WANT US TO
SIMPLY KEEP SHIFTING FROM ONE
PROBLEM TO ANOTHER.
IDEALLY THESE IMPROVEMENTS
COULD BE MADE TOGETHER OR WE
NEED TO DEVELOP A TIMELY
PROCESS FOR ADDRESSING IF AND
WHEN THEY ARISE AFTER THE FACT.
SO I KNOW THAT'S A LOT TO THROW
AT YOU AND I DO HAVE TWO
POTENTIAL AMENDMENTS.
SO IF YOU COULD ADD ME BACK
INTO OR YOU STILL HAVE THIRTY
SECONDS.
>> OH ALL RIGHT.
WELL THEN I WILL GO WITH THE
FIRST AMENDMENT FIRST AND I
HOPE THIS MIGHT BE FRIENDLY
ACKNOWLEDGING THAT OUR ROADWAYS
ALSO IMPACT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN BUS SYSTEM AND THAT
YOU HAVE AND FACULTY STAFF AND
STUDENTS ARE CONSIDERABLY
CONSIDERABLE USERS OF PUBLIC
TRANSIT AND MAKE UP A LARGE
SHARE OF OUR CITY'S CYCLISTS
AND PEDESTRIANS AND THAT U OF M
IS CURRENTLY UNDERGOING THEIR
OWN CAMPUS PLANNING PROCESS.
I WOULD MOVE TO ADD THE WORDS
AND OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN TO THE SECOND TO
LAST RESOLVED CLAUSE
IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE ANN
ARBOR TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY.
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND BY
COUNCILOR BRIGGS?
IS THAT THE BODY FRIENDLY BODY
COUNCILOR DENHA TO WANT TO KEEP
GOING?
>> I THINK HE'LL CUT ME UP.
I PROBABLY WOULD GO BACK TO
COUNCIL NO SONG THEN THEN THEN
WE WILL WAIT WITH BATED BREATH
FOR AMENDMENT NUMBER TWO.
THIS IS DISCUSSION ON THE MAIN
MOTION.
IT IS.
THANK YOU SO A COUPLE OF THINGS
I FEEL LIKE I'M THE ONLY ENOVA
RESIDENT THAT DRIVES THIRTY
MILES THIRTY FIVE MILES AN HOUR
ON HURON PARKWAY.
WE'VE GOT SOME REALLY SCARY
AREAS BACK HERE IN HIGH SCHOOL.
WE KNOW WE'VE HAD A FATALITY
THERE BEFORE WITH A STUDENT
THERE AND IN HURON HIGH SCHOOL
DURING SCHOOL HOURS IT'S
SUPPOSED TO BE TWENTY FIVE
MILES AN HOUR.
WE KNOW THERE ARE FOLKS WHO ARE
GOING FORTY FIVE FIFTY P
REGULARLY.
I AM THE ONE HOLDING EVERYONE
UP AT TWENTY FIVE MILES AN HOUR
BUT WE CAN ALSO SEE THE
POTENTIAL FOR FOR WHEN WE
REINVASION MULTI-LINE ROADS
RIGHT LIKE RIGHT NOW WE ARE
SEEING IMPROVEMENTS ON ERHART
ROAD THAT HAS BEEN LIKE FIVE
YEARS AND COMING IN EVEN THOUGH
THERE WAS OPPOSITION I REALLY
FEEL LIKE THERE WAS ONE COMMENT
FROM MATT CARPENTER, CEO OF THE
RITE AID THAT REALLY STRUCK ME
WHEN WE LOOKED AT AT THE
POTENTIAL IMPACT IN SUPPORTING
MULTIMODAL USE WAS WHEN HE SENT
ME AN EMAIL SAYING THAT ALL
TRANSIT RIDERS ARE PEDESTRIANS
AT THE BEGINNING AND END
OF EVERY TRIP AND THIS WAS IN
REFLEXION TO HAVE SIDEWALK
SIDEWALK APPS AND I FEEL LIKE
THIS RESOLUTION IS AS HONORS
THAT WORK SIMILARLY WHERE WE'RE
LOOKING AT GAPS.
I'M SORRY MA'AM.
CAN PLEASE LOWER THAT SIGN SO
IT IS BELOW SHOULDER LEVEL.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER.
MY APOLOGIES.
PLEASE GO ON.
SO IN OUR COMMITMENT TO
ADDRESSING GAPS PERHAPS THIS
THIS AMENDMENT IS ALSO A
REFLECTION OF HOW WE LOOK AT
OUR ROADWAYS AND LOOKING AT THE
GAPS IN ENDANGERED LAND USE AND
FLEXIBILITY AND HOPEFULLY CARE
WE ARE LIMITED IN HOW WE CAN
CONTROL OUR SPEED LIMITS IN THE
CITY BUT WE ARE NOT LIMITED IN
HOW WE FIGURE OUT OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS.
GREEN ROAD HAS BEEN GREAT
FAMILIES IN THAT IN THAT IN
THAT ROAD REDUCTION WHEN WE HAD
A LOT OF PROTEST SAYING WE WILL
NEVER BE ABLE TO TURN LEFT OUT
THE MARKET MIRACULOUSLY PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN ABLE TO TURN LEFT OUT
OF THE MARKET.
IT'S A MIRACLE PEOPLE HAVE MADE
IT HAPPEN.
THEY'VE BEEN ABLE TO GET A HOME
INTO WORK AND TO MARKET AND
EMPLOY MARKET AND PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN ABLE TO BIKE AND WALK
THEIR KIDS SAFELY TO WHERE THEY
NEED TO BE.
SO I HOPE I LOOK FORWARD TO THE
CITY ADMINISTRATORS REPORT.
I'D LOVE TO SEE HOW THIS
CONNECTS WITH OUR CYBERCOM WORK
.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCILOR OVER DENHA.
THANKS.
AND THE SECOND AMENDMENT IS
THAT I WOULD LIKE TO PROPOSE
THIS SIMPLY COMING BECAUSE I'M
I AM A BIT UNCOMFORTABLE
REMOVING AS I READ IT A
REPORTING REQUIREMENT THAT I
BELIEVE SHOULD TRANSPARENCY TO
OUR DECISION MAKING PROVIDES
COUNCIL LEVEL VISIBILITY TO
NETWORK LEVEL IMPACTS OF OUR
ROAD RECONFIGURATIONS AND THEN
ULTIMATELY EMPOWER US TO DO
MORE OF EXACTLY WHAT I WAS
ENCOURAGING EARLIER WHICH
CONSIDERING HOW SINGLE A SINGLE
ROAD IN RECONFIGURATION CAN
IMPACT AN ENTIRE NETWORK
OF STREETS SURROUNDING IT SO
THAT WE CAN BE MORE PROACTIVE
IN PROBLEM SOLVING.
I'M OPEN TO HAVING A
CONVERSATION ABOUT REVISITING
OUR EIGHTEEN TO SEVENTY FIVE TO
DETERMINE IF WE'RE STILL ASKING
FOR THE RIGHT DATA POINTS OR IF
WE NEED TO ADD DIFFERENT OR NEW
DATA POINTS THAT SHOULD BE
CONSIDERED AS WELL.
BUT I DON'T BELIEVE COUNCIL
SHOULD ELIMINATE THE DATA
REPORTING REQUIREMENT
THAT WAS
CREATED TO PROVIDE US WITH
INFORMATION TO INFORM OUR
DECISION MAKING.
FOR THAT REASON I WOULD MOVE TO
STRIKE THE FINAL RESULT CLAUSE.
IS THERE A SECOND SET BY
COUNCILOR BECAUSE HE HAD
DISCUSSION THE OF THE AMENDMENT
COUNCIL OVER BRIGS.
YEAH, THANK YOU.
I THINK A LOT'S BEEN MADE ABOUT
THIS RESOLUTION AND I
APPRECIATE THE PERSPECTIVE THAT
YOU'RE COMING TO THIS WITH.
I WOULD SAY THAT THIS WAS THIS
RESOLUTION WAS PUT FORWARD IN
TWENTY EIGHTEEN.
WE CAN ACKNOWLEDGE IT PRIOR TO
TWENTY EIGHTEEN COUNCIL DID NOT
RECEIVE THESE THIS DATA SO THE
REASON THAT A TWENTY EIGHTEEN
COUNCIL DECIDED TO BRING THIS
INFORMATION AND ESSENTIALLY
POLITICIZE ROAD
RECONFIGURATIONS BY BRINGING
THIS INFORMATION TO A COUNCIL
IS IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT I'M
SUPPORTIVE OF .
>> I BY STRIKING THIS THIS
REQUIREMENT DOESN'T MEAN THAT
THIS DATA WON'T BE COLLECTED.
IT WILL BE THIS IS A NORMAL
PART OF OUR EVALUATION PROCESS.
ALL THIS INFORMATION IS GOING
TO BE THERE.
IT IS INFORMATION THIS AND MORE
THAT WE'RE COLLECTING AND IT
WOULD BE A PART OF THE
EVALUATION PROCESS.
WHAT IS SAYING IS THAT THAT
EVERY TIME A ROAD
RECONFIGURATION COMES TO US
THAT IT NEEDS TO BE COME TO US
WITH ALL THIS INFORMATION I
WOULD ANTICIPATE THAT THIS IS A
LITTLE BIT DUPLICATIVE AS WELL
AS WELL BECAUSE WE ARE ASKING
FOR AN EVALUATION OF ALL OF OUR
ROADWAYS SO OSTENSIBLY THERE
WOULD BE REPORTS THAT WOULD BE
COMING OUT THOUGH TO ACTUALLY
HAVE A LOT OF INFORMATION AS
WELL.
SO AND FINALLY THIS WAS
ACTUALLY NOT RESOLVED CLAUSE
COUNCIL MEMBER AKMAN OR I SORT
OF CAME TO ON OUR OWN THIS IS
SOMETHING THE STAFF HAD
MENTIONED TO US AS SOMETHING
THAT WAS GETTING THAT SEEMED
UNNECESSARY AND NECESSARY STEP
IN THE PROCESS.
SO I DON'T PERSONALLY FEEL
SUPER STRONGLY ABOUT IT BUT I'M
TRYING TO GIVE THE BACKGROUND
AND HOW HOW IT GOT TO GOT TO US
AND IN THIS RESOLVED IN THIS
RESOLUTION FOR THE DISCUSSION
THE AMENDMENT COUNCIL RACKMAN I
APPRECIATE COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S WORDS AND WOULD ECHO
THEM.
BUT ALSO I DO WANT TO ADD THAT
ONE MEASURE THAT I DO FIND TO
BE PROBLEMATIC IS CONGESTION
BECAUSE I THINK IT MEASURES THE
WRONG THING ACCORDING TO OUR
VALUES.
WE KNOW THAT THIS LEVEL
OF SERVICE METRICS IT'S ANOTHER
NAME FOR IT.
IT'S AN OUTDATED MEASURE.
A LOT OF COMMUNITIES ARE
SWITCHING TO OTHER METRICS THAT
MORE ACCURATELY ACCURATELY
REFLECT THE COMMUNITY'S VALUES
.
YOU KNOW SOMETHING LIKE THE
LEVEL OF SERVICE THAT
PRIORITIZE IS AUTOMOBILE
THROUGHPUT INSTEAD OF LOOKING
AT THINGS LIKE ACCESSIBILITY,
SAFETY, SUSTAINABILITY AND
PERHAPS EVEN MORE SHOCKING
USING THAT MEASURE HASN'T
SOLVED CONGESTION.
SO WHAT ARE WE EVEN DOING?
SO YOU I CONCUR STAFF IS STILL
GOING TO BE COLLECTING THE
DATA.
WHAT WE'RE DOING IS REMOVING
THE NEED TO PRESENT IT TO US
BEFORE MOVING FORWARD WITH A
ROAD DIET.
THE METRIC LIKE I SAID THAT I
DO TAKE ISSUE WITH IS THIS
MEASURE OF CONGESTION OVER
DENHA THANK I APPRECIATE THAT
BACKGROUND AND I YOU KNOW, I
WENT BACK AND I READ THE
ORIGINAL RESOLUTION AS WELL AND
I DON'T WANT TO ASSUME THE
INTENT OF A FORMER COUNCIL BUT
IN READING IT I THINK I COULD
DRAW SOME CONCLUSIONS BUT BUT I
WILL SAY I AGREE WITH
COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN ABOUT THE
NEED TO POTENTIALLY UPDATE SOME
OF THE DATA POINTS THAT WOULD
COME TO US.
CONGESTION ITSELF ISN'T
NECESSARILY THE THE PIECE THAT
I'M INTERESTED OR THAT I'M MOST
CONCERNED ABOUT.
BUT I DO THINK TRAFFIC VOLUME
CAN HELP TO INFORM SOME OF THE
DECISIONS THAT THAT CREATED .
I MEAN THE EXACT PROBLEM THAT
I'M TALKING ABOUT RIGHT NOW IN
THE NEIGHBORHOODS ON EITHER
SIDE OF THAT ROAD, THOSE THOSE
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE EXPERIENCING
INCREASED TRAFFIC VOLUME ON
THEIR STREETS AFTER AFTER THE
RECONFIGURATION THAT WE MADE I
AM HOPEFUL THAT WHERE WE'RE
GOING TO MAKE SOME IMPROVEMENTS
IN THOSE NEIGHBORHOODS TO
RECTIFY SOME OF THOSE PROBLEMS
.
>> BUT I THINK IT'S IT'S AN
IMPORTANT DATA POINT FOR US TO
CONSIDER AS AS WE LOOK AT THE
LONGER TERM IMPACT AFTER SOME
OF THESE RECONFIGURATIONS.
AND SO THAT'S MY REASONING AND
AND CONTINUE TO SUPPORT THESE
RECONFIGURATIONS.
BUT I DO THINK THAT THE DATA IS
IMPORTANT FOR US TO LOOK AT A
MORE HOLISTIC PICTURE.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION,
COUNCILOR.
SOME IF YOU REALLY INTERESTED
TO SEE HOW THIS CHANGES AFTER
AS YOU DEVELOP IT AS NEW
DEVELOPMENTS COME INTO OUR
COMMUNITY SO SAY VIRIDIAN AND
THRIVE IS FINALLY BUILT ALONG
PLATEN PACARD WHERE WE SEE AS
MUCH TRAFFIC COMING THROUGH THE
NEIGHBORHOODS.
WILL WE I MEAN OR WILL WE SAY
THAT YOU KNOW, WITH DIFFERENT
ROAD CONFIGURATIONS IT'S
FORCING TRAFFIC THROUGH THE
NEIGHBORHOODS FOREVER OR WILL
PEOPLE ACTUALLY BE ABLE TO LIVE
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD TO MAYBE
USE TRANSIT?
AND SINCE WE ARE TRAFFIC
TRAFFIC OUR PEOPLE, MAYBE THE
NUMBERS WOULD DIFFER.
SO IF WE'RE GOING TO ASK FOR
DATA POINTS, I'D BE REALLY
CURIOUS TO SEE WHAT THE
DIFFERENCE WOULD BE AS WE
WELCOME MORE HOUSING SO WE'RE
TO MORE HERE.
I AGREE BOTH WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA AND COUNCIL MEMBER
SONG AND I ALSO THINK BY HAVING
THAT VOLUME TRAFFIC VOLUME DATA
FOR FOR ESPECIALLY FOR THROUGH
TRAFFIC AND NEIGHBORHOOD IT CAN
HELP TO HIGHLIGHT SOME OTHER
INFRASTRUCTURE GAPS WE HAVE
LIKE THE FACT THAT THOSE
NEIGHBORHOODS BOTH ON PACARD
AND ON THAT MANY OF THEM DON'T
HAVE SIDEWALKS AND THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT THIS CUT THIS
INCREASE AND CUT THROUGH
TRAFFIC HAS HELPED TO REALLY
HIGHLIGHT HOW IT'S AN
ACCESSIBILITY AND SAFETY ISSUE.
SO I THINK THAT SOME OF THIS
THIS DATA WILL BE HELPFUL
WHETHER IT'S THIS OR OTHER DATA
POINTS.
I THINK HAVING SOME ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION WOULD BE HELPFUL.
>> COUNCILOR IHR YOU AND I
AGREE THE DATA IS HELPFUL.
I THINK IT'S I THINK IT'S MOST
HELPFUL TO STAFF WHO ARE MAKING
THE DECISIONS ON WHAT THE
RECONFIGURATION IS GOING TO
LOOK LIKE AND THEN FOLLOWING
WITH ADDITIONAL TWEAKS IF
NECESSARY IN THE FUTURE HERE AT
COUNCIL.
I THINK IT'S PROBABLY NOT I
CERTAINLY WILL SPEAK FOR
MYSELF.
IT'S I DON'T FEEL LIKE I HAVE
THE KNOWLEDGE THE ENGINEERING
THE TRAFFIC DATA KNOWLEDGE TO
MAKE A DECISION ON A ROAD
CONFIGURATION BASED ON MY OWN
VIEW OF THE DATA THAT'S
PRESENTED TO ME.
AND SO I THINK THE IMPORTANCE
OF THE DATA IS YOU KNOW, THAT
IT'S STILL BEING COLLECTED,
THAT IT'S BEING USED BY OUR
ENGINEERS AND OUR STAFF TO
ULTIMATELY DECIDE WHAT THE
RECONFIGURATION SHOULD BE WHEN
THEY BRING IT TO US AND THEN TO
CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVE IT IF
NECESSARY.
BUT I DO VIEW BRINGING IT TO US
AND AND I WILL GO BACK TO THE
THE LIKELY INTENT OF THAT
TWENTY EIGHTEEN RESOLUTION WAS
TO POLITICIZE IT AND TO MAKE IT
MORE DIFFICULT FOR COUNCIL TO
APPROVE ROAD RECONFIGURATIONS
BECAUSE IT THEN BECOMES PART
OF THE YOU KNOW, THE ARGUMENT
AGAINST AGAINST DOING IT IN THE
NAME OF TRAFFIC FLOW VERSUS
SAFETY.
SO I WILL BE VOTING AGAINST THE
AMENDMENT FOR THE DISCUSSION
BECAUSE WE'RE ZERO ASK HOW
FREQUENTLY SO THROUGHOUT US
EVALUATION PROCESS THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR WILL HAVE TO
CONDUCT HOW OFTEN WILL THERE BE
REPORTS MADE AVAILABLE OR WILL
BE MR HURST'S?
YEAH, MY UNDERSTANDING IS WE
WOULD EVALUATE THE OPPORTUNITY
FOR ROAD RECONFIGURATION OF A
ROAD DIET WILL ONCE AS PART
OF A A FAIRLY HOLISTIC STUDY
AND LOOKING AT ALL THE
MULTILINE CORRIDORS AND THEN IF
WE HAVE TO REEVALUATE AT A
FUTURE DATE THAT MIGHT BE
SOMETHING TO CONSIDER
ESPECIALLY IF THERE ARE CHANGES
.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, ONE OF THE
CHANGES THAT COMES TO MIND IS
SOME OF THE RIGHTS LONG RANGE
PLAN THE TO CALL FOR DEDICATED
OR BUS RAPID TRANSIT AND SO
THERE'S A TIMING THERE THAT WE
MIGHT HAVE TO CONSIDER ABOUT
WHAT TO DO WITH THAT REPURPOSE
LANE.
DOES IT MAKE SENSE TO HAVE A
DEDICATED TRANSIT ON IT OR BIKE
FACILITY OR SOMETHING ELSE?
SO IN SITUATIONS LIKE THAT IF
THE RIDE OR WHICHEVER TRANSIT
AGENCY MICHIGAN OR WHATEVER, IF
THEY ARE NOT YET READY FOR THAT
RECONFIGURATION, THEN MAYBE WE
HAVE TO BE EVALUATED AT A LATER
DATE.
BUT BY AND LARGE REINTERPRETING
INTERPRETING THIS DIRECTION TO
BE EVALUATE ALL OF THEM ONCE BY
THE TIMELINE.
>> OK, THANK YOU COUNCILOR
BRACKMAN WANTED TO LET PEOPLE
WHO ARE AS STEEPED IN THE
NURSERY OF THE CITY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGGS AND I ARE THAT
OUR TRANSPORTATION TEAM IS VERY
DATA DRIVEN.
IN FACT WE HAVE A WHOLE SPEED
MANAGEMENT PAGE WHERE YOU CAN
GO ROAD BY ROAD AND SEE THE
TRAFFIC VOLUME GRANTED THAT
PROBABLY NEEDS TO BE UPDATED.
I DON'T KNOW THE LAST TIME THAT
THOSE NUMBERS WERE BUT YOU CAN
SEE WHAT THE ANNUAL OR SORRY
THE AVERAGE DAILY AUTO TRAFFIC
IS.
YOU CAN SEE THE NUMBER
OF CRASHES.
SO YOU KNOW THEY'RE DOING THIS
IN THE COURSE OF THEIR WORK AND
THAT'S IT FOR THE DISCUSSION.
>> COUNCILOR WATSON, I I HAVE
EXPERIENCE WITH THIS EARLY ON
EARLIER THIS YEAR TALKING TO
STAFF ABOUT YOUR OWN PARKWAY AS
LIZ MENTIONED, YOU KNOW, WE'VE
HEARD FROM A LOT OF A LOT
OF RESIDENTS ABOUT
THE
DIFFICULTY OF CROSSING TO GET
TO HERE ON HURON HIGH SCHOOL AT
SOME POINT IT'S FIVE LANES
OF TRAFFIC.
BUT WHAT THAT LED ME WAS TO DIG
PRETTY DEEP ABOUT THE TRAFFIC
VOLUME COUNTS ON HERE ON
PARKWAY THERE ALMOST HALF THE
TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND ADT
RECOMMENDATION.
AND SO TO ME THIS IS THE KIND
OF INFORMATION I WOULD RFI
ANYWAY TO GET A BETTER
UNDERSTANDING OF THESE PROJECTS
AND TO UNDERSTAND HOW WELL WE
FIT WITHIN THOSE YOU KNOW,
UNDER THAT TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND
AVERAGE DAILY TRIP
RECOMMENDATION.
I DON'T I THINK THAT THE PEOPLE
WHO POLITICIZE THIS DATA WOULD
FIND A WAY TO DO IT AND I THINK
I'M OK.
I'M OK HAVING THAT DATA
PRESENTED TO COUNCIL I JUST
TEND TO FIND IT ALL IN ONE
PLACE IS A GOOD THING.
SO I SUPPORT THE AMENDMENT FOR
THE DISCUSSION.
>> ROLL THOUGH PLEASE.
STARTING WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
BRAKE'S COUNCILOR BRIGGS.
NO COUNCILOR CORNELL NO
SMARTISH NO CUSTOMER HARRISON
YES COUNCILOR SONG NO CUSTOMER
LATSON YES.
COUNCILOR DENHA YES.
COUNCILOR 01 YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR NO COUNCILOR ER NO
COUNCILOR AKMAN NO MOTION FELL
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN
MOTION AS AMENDED OR FAVOR
PROPOSED IT IS APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY
OF MAY
HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO GO INTO
CLOSED SESSION ON THAT BASIS
MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGSTOCK MY COUNSEL BRIAN
DISCUSSION COUNCILMAN COUNCIL
MEMBER DESHON RURALCO WILL
PLEASE START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS.
COUNCILOR BRIGGS YES.
COUNCILOR COL YES.
COUNCILOR DISH.
YES SIR.
HARRISON YES.
COUNCILOR SONG YES.
COUNCILOR WATSON YES.
BECAUSE WE'RE A DENHA YES.
COUNCILOR 01 YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
COUNCILOR IHR YES COUNCILOR
YES.
MOTION CARRIES WE'RE IN CLOSED
SESSION
IN OPEN SESSION HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE APPROVE THE
CLERK'S PART OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON SAYING
GOODBYE COUNCILOR BECAUSE HE
HAD ONE DISCUSSION OF THE
CLERK'S SUPPORT OR FAVOR POSED
THE CLERK'S PART IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF COMMUNITY OF COMMUNICATION
FROM CITY ATTORNEY TODAY WE ARE
NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOW PUBLIC I WE PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
COMMUNITY THAT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST.
FOLKS AT PUBLIC OVERFLOW HAVE
SIGNED UP PREVIOUSLY FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT BUT DID NOT HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK DURING
INITIAL PUBLIC COMMENT.
OUR FIRST SPEAKERS HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK SO
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
THE TIME OUR FIRST SPEAKER
TODAY IS BLAINE COLEMAN
REGIONAL CITY COUNCIL.
THANK YOU AND YOU CAN LOOK IT
AT
YOU AND HAVE THE SAME KIND
OF RESOLUTION AGAIN AS MR.
COLEMAN.
>> YOUR MIC IS OFF LIKE IS IT
ON?
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
YEAH, I'M REALLY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
RICHMOND CITY COUNCIL
INCH'ALLAH.
CALIFORNIA PASSED A RESOLUTION
QUITE RECENTLY AGAINST MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL AND THEY ACCUSED
ISRAEL RIGHTFULLY OF ETHNIC
CLEANSING.
THIS WAS A RICHMOND CITY
COUNCIL IN CALIFORNIA.
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
BASICALLY YOU SAID THAT YOU
DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO DO.
YOU DIDN'T KNOW WHAT THE ANSWER
WAS.
THAT'S THE ANSWER.
A RESOLUTION JUST LIKE RICHMOND
CITY COUNCIL JUST PASSED
AGAINST MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL
AND IF YOU LIKE YOU CAN FOLLOW
THEIR LEAD AND EXPLAINING THAT
ISRAEL IS COMMITTING ETHNIC
CLEANSING, WHICH IT IS.
AND AND THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
YOU KNOW, YOU'RE AN EDUCATED
PERSON.
YOU READ THE NEWS , YOU KNOW
IT.
THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND PEOPLE
JUST MARCHED IN WASHINGTON
AGAIN MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL
AGAINST THE WAR CRIMES THAT
ISRAEL IS COMMITTING AND THOSE
ARE WAR CRIMES THAT YOU ARE
ASSISTING BY SMOTHERING
PALESTINIAN RIGHTS RESOLUTIONS
.
NOW IF I'M WRONG AND ONE OF YOU
HAS FINALLY DECIDED YEAH, WE
REALLY OUGHT TO PASS A
RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY
AID, SAY SO TELL ME YOU CAN DO
IT NOW COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN,
WILL YOU FINALLY ALLOW A VOTE
ON THE RESOLUTION AGAINST
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL?
OK, NO ANSWER.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS WILL YOU
ALLOW A VOTE ON THE RESOLUTION
AGAINST MILITARY AID ISRAEL
WHILE WE SEE ISRAEL BOMBING TEN
THOUSAND PALESTINIANS TO DEATH
IN FRONT OF OUR EYES RIGHT NOW
WILL YOU ALLOW A VOTE NO ANSWER
FROM BRIGG'S BRIGGS'S MAKING
EYE CONTACT BUT NO ANSWER
COUNCIL MEMBER IA WILL YOU I
NOT EVEN MAKING EYE CONTACT
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL WILL YOU
NO ANSWER FROM CORNELL COUNCIL
MEMBER ED WHEN WILL YOU ALLOW
FINALLY A VOTE ON THE
RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL?
YOU SEE ISRAEL BOMBING TEN
THOUSAND PALESTINIANS TADESSE
AND THERE IS NO ANSWER FROM
FROM COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI
EDWYN.
SHE'S MAKING EYE CONTACT BUT I
CAN'T READ WHAT SHE'S THINKING.
COUNCIL MEMBER OF A DENHA WILL
YOU FINALLY ALLOW A VOTE ON THE
RESOLUTION?
EYE CONTACT BUT FLAT LINE
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON, WILL YOU
EYE CONTACT HAND ON MOUTH NO
OTHER RESPONSE COUNCIL MEMBER
SONG WILL YOU ALLOW A VOTE?
NOTHING COUNCIL MEMBER HARRIS
AND WILL YOU NOTHING STARING
DEAD AHEAD MAKING EYE CONTACT
BUT NOTHING ELSE COUNCIL MEMBER
DISHWARE YOU WILL YOU ALLOW A
VOTE ON THE RESOLUTION AGAINST
MILITARY AID ISRAEL EYE CONTACT
BUT NO RESPONSE.
I'M SORRY ABOUT THAT.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MILJAN
SAVABLE USCIRF HONEY THERE IS
NO BIGGER LIE THAN FOR THIS
MEIR AND HIS LITTLE ELVES TO
SAY THAT THEY'VE HEARD THE
VOICES OF PALESTINIAN PEOPLE IN
THIS TOWN.
THERE IS NO BIGGER LIE THAN FOR
THEM TO SAY SUCH THING AS THEY
LIE ABOUT OTHER THINGS.
BUT THIS IS THE BIGGEST LIE
I'VE EVER TOLD ONLY SINCE
THIRTY ONE DAYS AGO WHEN ISRAEL
STARTED TO SEVERELY BOMB AND
KILL PALESTINIANS IN GAZA ONLY
SINCE THIRTY ONE DAYS AGO THERE
HAVE BEEN MANY, MANY PROTESTS
ACROSS ANN ARBOR AND THE VOICES
OF STUDENTS AND RESIDENTS
OF THIS TOWN SCREAMING NOT A
PENNY, NOT A DIME, NO MONEY FOR
ISRAEL'S CRIME HAVE FILLED THE
STREETS OF THIS TOWN.
YES, THERE HAS BEEN MANY, MANY
PROTESTS AND PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
SCREAMING NOT A PENNY, NOT A
DIME, NO MORE MONEY FOR
ISRAELIS.
CHIM'S AND TONIGHT WHEN PEOPLE
ARE BEING BOMBED IN GAZA TO
DEATH CARPET BOMBED BY ISRAEL
AND THE TAXES OF THESE PEOPLE
NO ONE NO ONE ON THIS CITY
COUNCIL WOULD EVEN SAY WE WILL
DISCUSS A RESOLUTION TO CUT OFF
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
THESE TAPES WILL LAST AND THEY
WILL RUIN YOU FOR THE REST
OF YOUR LIVES BECAUSE PEOPLE
WILL SEE WHO YOU ARE.
THE SNAKES THAT YOU ARE.
BUT I TELL YOU THIS THE WORLD
NOW KNOWS WITH ABSOLUTE
CERTAINTY WHO THE TERRORISTS
ARE.
THE TERRORISTS ARE THE STATE
OF ISRAEL AND THE STATE OF THE
UNITED STATES AND THOSE WHO
CONTINUE TO TO PROTECT ISRAEL.
I'M SAYING NOTHING NOTHING
ABOUT THE CRIMES OF ISRAEL.
LOTS OF THESE PEOPLE WILL GO TO
THE HAGUE.
THIS WORLD IS BETTER THAN TO
LET SCUMBAGS LIKE THAT TO STAY
FREE AND TO STEAL OUR PEOPLE.
THE WORLD IS NOT THE SAME AS IT
WAS THIRTY ONE DAYS AGO.
IT IS NOT CLEAR WHO THE
TERRORISTS ARE AND GO TO THE
HAGUE IF YOU HAVE THE SMALLEST
BIT OF HUMANITY IN YOU AND I
REALLY DON'T THINK YOU DO BUT I
AM REACHING OUT TO THAT TINY
EPSILON OF HUMANITY THAT ONE
OF YOU MIGHT HAVE IF YOU HAVE
THAT TINY BIT OF HUMANITY STAND
UP AND SAY LET US DISCUSS THE
RESOLUTION THAT WE ARE AGAINST
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
IF YOU DON'T YOU YOUR PEOPLE
WHO ARE GOING TO BE VOTING FOR
YOU, THEY WILL VOTE YOU OUT A
RULE I SIMPLY JUST PASSED A
RESOLUTION ASKING FOR A STOP TO
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
THESE ARE THE PEOPLE WHO VOTE
FOR YOU IF THEY ARE SAYING THAT
THEY WANT MONEY TO BE CUT OFF
TO ISRAEL, YOU SHOULD AT LEAST
DISCUSS IT IF NOT IS THE SAME
AS MURDERERS WHO ARE MURDERING
PALESTINIANS.
AND I WOULD SAY SHAME ON YOU IF
YOU DON'T THANK YOU AND I HATE
IT WHEN MR. MILLER THANKS ME
BECAUSE I HAVE NO USE FOR HIS
THANKING ME.
YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED.
THANK MY TIME HAS NOT EXPIRED.
MY TIME HAS JUST BEGUN.
WE NOW HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MOTION TO ADJOURN MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON SAID
GOODBYE COUNCILOR DISCUSSION
OF THE MOTION TO ADJOURN ON
FAVOR POSED.
WE ARE ADJOURNED